ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including any information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “forecast,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and situations that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, level of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors include those listed below in this Item 1A and those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We encourage investors to review these factors carefully. We may from time to time make additional written and oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake to update any forward looking statement that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of us, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. 11 Table of Contents Before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our securities, you should be aware that our business faces numerous financial and market risks, including those described below, as well as general economic and business risks. The following discussion provides information concerning the material risks and uncertainties that we have identified and believe may adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our securities, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Failure to Meet Expectations Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate due to general economic conditions and a variety of risks specific to Actel or characteristic of the semiconductor industry, including booking and shipment uncertainties, supply problems, and price erosion. These and other factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict quarterly revenues and operating results, which may fail to meet our expectations. When we fall short of our quarterly revenue expectations, our operating results will probably also be adversely affected because the majority of our expenses are fixed and therefore do not vary with revenues. Any failure to meet expectations could cause our stock price to decline, perhaps significantly. The current economic environment makes quarterly revenues difficult to predict. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are affected, both positively and negatively, by fluctuations in general economic conditions and in the semiconductor industry. Overall conditions in the worldwide economy and financial markets in general, and in the semiconductor industry in particular, have improved since the second half of 2008, but visibility continues to be limited and forecasting remains extremely difficult. Our failure, or the failure of our distributors, to accurately forecast customer demand for our products could adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our operating efficiencies and quarterly financial results. We derive a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from bookings received during the quarter, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We generate a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from orders received during the quarter and “turned” for shipment within the quarter. Any shortfall in expected “turns” orders will adversely affect quarterly revenues. There are many factors that can cause a shortfall in turns orders, including declines in general economic conditions or the businesses of our customers, excess inventory in the channel, and conversion of our products to ASICs or other competing products for price or other reasons. In addition, we sometimes book a disproportionately large percentage of turns orders during the final weeks of the quarter. Any failure to receive, or delay in receiving, expected turns orders would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect quarterly revenues. We sometimes derive a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from shipments made in the final weeks of the quarter, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We sometimes ship a disproportionately large percentage of our quarterly revenues during the final weeks of the quarter, and any delays in making those shipments are more likely to cause them to slip into the following quarter. Any failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect quarterly revenues. Our military and aerospace shipments tend to be large and are subject to complex scheduling uncertainties, making quarterly revenues and operating results difficult to predict. Orders from our military and aerospace customers tend to be large monetarily and irregular, which contributes to fluctuations in our net revenues and gross margins. These sales are also subject to more extensive governmental regulations, including greater export restrictions. Historically, it has been difficult to predict if and when export licenses will be granted, if required. In addition, products for military and aerospace applications require processing and testing that is more lengthy and stringent than for commercial applications, which increases the complexity of scheduling and forecasting as well as the risk of failure. It is often impossible to determine before the end of processing and testing whether products intended for military or aerospace applications will pass and, if not, it is 12 Table of Contents generally not possible for replacements to be processed and tested in time for shipment during the same quarter. Any failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect quarterly revenues. We derive a majority of our quarterly revenues from products resold by our distributors, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We generate the majority of our quarterly revenues from sales made through distributors. Since we generally do not recognize revenue on the sale of a product to a distributor until the distributor resells the product, our quarterly revenues are dependent on, and subject to fluctuations in, shipments by our distributors. We are therefore highly dependent on the accuracy of shipment forecasts from our distributors in setting our quarterly revenue expectations. Any failure by our distributors to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our quarterly revenues. We are also highly dependent on the timeliness and accuracy of resale reports from our distributors. Late or inaccurate resale reports, particularly in the last month of a quarter, contribute to our difficulty in predicting and reporting our quarterly revenues and/or operating results. An unanticipated shortage of products available for sale may cause our quarterly revenues and/or operating results to fall short of expectations. In a typical semiconductor manufacturing process, silicon wafers produced by a foundry are sorted and cut into individual die, which are then assembled into individual packages and tested. The manufacture, assembly, and testing of semiconductor products is highly complex and subject to a wide variety of risks, including defects in photomasks, impurities in the materials used, contaminants in the environment, and performance failures by personnel and equipment. In addition, we may not discover defects or other errors in new products until after we have commenced volume production. Semiconductor products intended for military and aerospace applications and new products, such as our Fusion, SmartFusion, ProASIC 3, and Igloo FPGAs, are often more complex and more difficult to produce, increasing the risk of manufacturing- and design-related defects. Our failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter due to production difficulties or other unexpected supply constraints would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our quarterly revenues. Unanticipated increases, or the failure to achieve anticipated reductions, in the cost of our products may cause our quarterly operating results to fall short of expectations. As is also common in the semiconductor industry, our independent wafer suppliers from time to time experience lower than anticipated yields of usable die. Wafer yields can decline without warning and may take substantial time to analyze and correct, particularly for a company like Actel that utilizes independent foundries, almost all of which are offshore. Yield problems are most common at new foundries (particularly when new technologies are involved) or on new processes or new products (particularly when new products and new processes are both involved). Our FPGAs are also manufactured using customized processing steps, which may increase the incidence of production yield problems as well as the amount of time needed to achieve satisfactory, sustainable wafer yields on new processes and new products. Lower than expected yields of usable die or other unanticipated increases in the cost of our products could reduce our gross margin, which would adversely affect (and perhaps materially) our quarterly operating results. In addition, in order to win designs, we generally must price new products on the assumption that manufacturing cost reductions will be achieved, which often do not occur as soon as expected. We also seek to reduce costs by negotiating price reductions with suppliers, increasing the level and efficiency of our testing and packaging operations, achieving economies of scale by means of higher production levels, and shrinking the die size of our products. The failure to achieve expected manufacturing or other cost reductions during a quarter could reduce our gross margin, which would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our quarterly operating results. Also, if we discover defects or other errors in a new product that require us to “re-spin” some or all of the product’s photomask set, we must write-off the photomasks that are replaced. This type of expense is becoming more significant as the cost of photomasks continues to increase. The write-off of any photomasks will adversely, and perhaps materially, affect our operating results for the quarter in which the write-off is taken. The same is true of any other property and equipment write-offs. During the second quarter of 2009, for 13 Table of Contents example, we recorded non-cash asset impairment charges totaling $5.5 million for certain manufacturing fixed assets that were determined to be excess of current and expected future manufacturing requirements. Unanticipated reductions in the average selling prices of our products may cause our quarterly revenues and operating results to fall short of expectations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by intense price competition. The average selling price of a product typically declines significantly between introduction and maturity. We sometimes are required by competitive pressures to reduce the prices of our new products more quickly than cost reductions can be achieved. We also sometimes approve price reductions on specific direct sales for strategic or other reasons, and provide price concessions to our distributors for a portion of their original purchase price in order to permit them to address individual negotiations involving high-volume or competitive situations. Typically, a customer purchasing a small quantity of product for prototyping or development from a distributor will pay list price. However, a customer using our products in volume production will often negotiate a substantial price discount from the distributor. Under such circumstances, the distributor will in turn often negotiate and receive a price concession from Actel. This is a standard practice in the semiconductor industry and we provide some level of price concession to every distributor. We have also sometimes offered price reductions on certain products to reduce inventory levels. Unanticipated declines in the average selling prices of our products could cause our quarterly revenues and/or gross margin to fall short of expectations, which would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our quarterly financial results. In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous, making our financial results difficult to predict. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern goodwill and long-lived asset impairment, income taxes, inventories, legal matters and loss contingencies, revenues, and stock-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely (and perhaps materially) affected. For example, during the second quarter of 2009, we determined (on the basis of our forecast of future taxable income and other relevant factors) that it was more likely than not that we would not be able to realize any of our net deferred tax assets. As a result, we recorded a tax provision for the second quarter of $23.8 million on a second quarter pre-tax loss of $21.4 million, the difference being due primarily to the valuation allowance recorded against 100% of our net deferred tax assets during the second quarter. Our net inventories were $37.3 million at the end of 2009 compared with $60.6 million at end of 2008 and $35.6 million at the end of 2007. The $25.0 million (or 70%) increase in our net inventory during 2008 was due to a build-up of our new flash products, including Fusion, Igloo, and ProASIC3. We have historically built-up inventories of new products early in their life cycles, but the build-up in inventory for the new flash products during 2008 was particularly pronounced due to a conscious effort to support increased turns business and shorter lead times for the consumer products at which the new flash products are targeted. We experienced very strong booking for these products in the first half of 2008 and accordingly initiated a ramp-up in manufacturing. However, a significant amount of these orders were cancelled in the second half of 2008 as a result of the worldwide economic crisis. Beginning in August 2008, we reduced our wafer starts for flash products to the lowest levels practicable and have continued to restrict flash wafer starts based on inventory levels and forecast sales of flash products. However, in order to preserve our relationships with our foundries, we must continue to build certain minimum levels of flash products, so an extended period of time will probably be necessary in order to draw down inventory levels closer to historical norms. We believe our flash products are still attractive to our targeted customer base. We continue to focus our efforts on growing the flash business and are aggressively marketing our flash products in an effort to reduce our inventory. This may include promotional pricing for certain large volume orders, which may negatively 14 Table of Contents affect our gross margins. We are also monitoring market trends and significant events that may have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our inventory. Although we have been able to reduce some of our flash inventory in recent quarters, we determined (as part of our normal quarterly inventory review) that additional reserves for excess inventory of $13.3 million, $0.6 million, and $1.2 million were required as of the end of the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. If we conclude in the future that additional inventory write-downs are required, our operating results for the periods in which the write-downs occur would also be adversely (and perhaps materially) affected. Risks Related to Our Business Strategies Our short- and long-term revenues and operating results are dependent in large part upon the success of our business strategies, which include developing and offering FPGAs to markets in which we believe our technologies have a competitive advantage, such as the mixed-signal and value-based FPGA markets, and conducting more of our operations offshore (i.e., overseas) in order to reduce costs. Our failure to execute any of our business strategies, or the failure of any of our business strategies to achieve the desired results, could (and probably would) have an adverse (and perhaps material) effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. In order for us to sell an FPGA, our customer must incorporate our FPGA into the customer’s product in the design phase. We devote substantial resources, which we may not recover through product sales, to persuade potential customers to incorporate our FPGAs into new or updated products and to support their design efforts (including, among other things, providing design and development software). These efforts usually precede by many months (and often a year or more) the generation of FPGA sales, if any. In addition, the value of any design win depends in large part upon the ultimate success of our customer’s product in its market. Our failure to win sufficient designs, or the failure of the designs we win to generate sufficient revenues, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. The products that we develop may fail to adequately address the markets at which they are targeted, or the markets that we target may fail to emerge or grow as much as we project, which might prevent us from winning sufficient customer designs to maintain or expand our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence, and price erosion, making the timely introduction of new or improved products critical to our success. Our product development and marketing strategy is to define, develop, and offer FPGAs to markets in which we believe that our nonvolatile flash- and antifuse-based technologies have a competitive advantage. Our strategy involves considerable risk because our unique technologies and products can take years to develop (if at all), and markets that we target may fail to develop as we predict. Our failure to design, develop, market, and sell new or improved products that satisfy customer needs, compete effectively, and generate acceptable margins may adversely (and perhaps materially) affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. The Actel Fusion and SmartFusion mixed-signal FPGAs present numerous significant challenges. Our experience generally suggests that the development and market risks related to new products are greatest when we attempt to develop products based in whole or in part on technologies with which we have limited experience. During 2005, we introduced our Actel Fusion mixed-signal technology, which integrates analog capabilities, flash memory, and FPGA fabric into a single mixed-signal FPGA that may be used with soft processor cores. Before the development of Actel Fusion mixed-signal FPGAs, we had limited experience with analog circuitry and soft processor cores and no experience with mixed-signal FPGAs. As our experience also suggests, the development and market risks related to the second-generation product, SmartFusion, ought to be significantly lower. To realize the advantages of being the initial entrant in the mixed-signal FPGA market, we needed to understand the market, the competition, and the value proposition; identify the early adopters and understand their buying process, decision criteria, and support requirements; and select the appropriate sales channels and provide the appropriate customer service, logistical, and technical support, including training. Meeting these challenges has been a priority for Actel generally and for our sales and marketing organizations in particular. While Actel Fusion 15 Table of Contents has achieved limited success, a great deal of understanding and experience has been gained, which have been or are being applied to SmartFusion. Nonetheless, the risks associated with the market acceptance of SmartFusion are still substantial. When entering a new market, the first-mover typically faces the greatest technological and market challenges, and that remains true of the mixed-signal FPGA market. Our failure to meet these challenges could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our gross margin may decline as we increasingly compete with ASICs and serve the value-based market. The price we can charge for our products is constrained principally by our competition. While it has always been intense, we believe that price competition for new designs is increasing. This may be due in part to the transition toward high-level design methodologies. Designers can now wait until later in the design process before selecting a PLD or ASIC and it is easier to convert between competing PLDs or between a PLD and an ASIC. The increased price competition may also be due in part to the increasing penetration of PLDs into price-sensitive markets previously dominated by ASICs. We have strategically targeted many of our products at the value-based market, which is defined primarily by low prices. If our strategy is successful, we will generate an increasingly greater percentage of our net revenues from low-price products, which may make it more difficult to maintain gross margin at our historic levels. In addition, gross margins on new products are generally lower than on mature products. Thus, if we generate a greater percentage of our net revenues from new products, our overall gross margin could be adversely affected. We have also sometimes offered price reductions on certain products to reduce inventory levels. Any long-term decline in our overall gross margin may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our restructuring plan may not properly realign our cost structure and our increased reliance on offshore and outsourced operations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. During the first quarter of 2009, we announced a Company-wide restructuring plan that, in conjunction with cost-reduction initiatives taken in the fourth quarter of 2008, is expected to result in a quarterly reduction in expenses of approximately $6.5 million in the third quarter of 2010 compared with the third quarter of 2008. We estimate that approximately $4.5 million of the quarterly reductions will be in operating spending and that the balance of savings will be in cost of goods sold. To date, we have recorded approximately $5.0 million for severance and other costs related to reductions in force and $5.5 million in other restructuring costs. We expect to record additional charges of approximately $0.5 million by the third quarter of 2010, when the restructuring will be substantially complete. If we experience expenses in excess of what we anticipate in connection with these restructuring activities (such as unanticipated costs associated with closing a facility), or if we experience unanticipated inefficiencies as a result of these restructuring activities (such as excessive delays in developing new products caused by reduced headcount), our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be adversely (and perhaps materially) affected. In addition, part of our restructuring plan involves increased offshoring and outsourcing, which involves numerous risks, including operational business issues such as productivity, efficiency, and quality; geographic, cultural, and communication issues; and information security, intellectual property protection, and other legal issues. The increased offshoring and outsourcing activities will also be subject to the general uncertainties associated with international business operations, including trade barriers and other restrictions; governmental regulations (including taxation) and changes in governmental regulations (including trade policies); currency exchange fluctuations; war and other military activities; terrorism; changes in social, political, or economic conditions; and other disruptions or delays in production or shipments. Any of these risks could render our offshoring and outsourcing plans ineffective, which could have an adverse (and perhaps material) effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Risks Related to Defective Products Our products are complex and may contain errors, manufacturing defects, design defects, or otherwise fail to comply with our specifications, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our new products are being designed to use ever more advanced manufacturing processes, adding cost, complexity, and elements of 16 Table of Contents experimentation to the development, particularly in the areas of mixed-voltage and mixed-signal design. We rely primarily on our in-house personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any errors prior to delivery of our products to customers. Any error or defect in our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers, in part because our products are manufactured by third parties. These problems could also cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and cause significant customer-relations problems and impair our business reputation. Any error or defect might require product replacement or recall or obligate us to accept product returns. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse (and perhaps material) effect on our financial results and business in the short and/or long term. Any product liability claim could pose a significant risk to our business, financial condition, and operating results. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our products. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could cause failure in our customer’s end-product, so we could face claims for damages that are much higher than the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. In addition, product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive, and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of those products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, can result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. In the event of an adverse settlement of any product liability claim or an adverse ruling in any product liability litigation, we could incur significant monetary liabilities, which may not be covered by any insurance that we carry and might have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Related to New Products The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence, and price erosion, making the timely introduction of new or improved products critical to our success. Our failure to design, develop, market, and sell new or improved products that satisfy customer needs, compete effectively, and generate acceptable margins may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Numerous factors can cause the development or introduction of new products to fail or be delayed. To develop and introduce a product, we must successfully accomplish all of the following: • anticipate future customer demand and the technology that will be available to meet the demand; • define the product and its architecture, including the technology, silicon, programmer, IP, software, and packaging specifications; • obtain access to advanced manufacturing process technologies; • design and verify the silicon; • develop and release evaluation software; • layout the FPGA and other functional blocks along with the circuitry required for programming; • integrate the FPGA block with the other functional blocks; • simulate (i.e., test) the design of the product; • tapeout the product (i.e., compile a database containing the design information about the product for use in the preparation of photomasks); 17 Table of Contents • generate photomasks for use in manufacturing the product and evaluate the software; • manufacture the product at the foundry; • verify the product; and • qualify the process, characterize the product, and release production software. Each of these steps is difficult and subject to failure or delay, and the failure or delay of any step can cause the failure or delay of the entire development and introduction. In addition to failing to meet our development and introduction schedules for new products or the supporting software or hardware, our new products may not gain market acceptance, and we may not respond effectively to new technological changes or new product announcements by others. Any failure to successfully define, develop, market, manufacture, assemble, test, or program competitive new products could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. New products are subject to greater design and operational risks. Our future success is highly dependent upon the timely development and introduction of competitive new products at acceptable margins. However, there are greater design and operational risks associated with new products. The inability of our wafer suppliers to produce advanced products; delays in commencing or maintaining volume shipments of new products; the discovery of product, process, software, or programming defects or failures; and any related product returns could each have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operation. New products are subject to greater technology risks. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. The fabrication of antifuse and flash wafers is complex, requiring a high degree of technical skill, state-of-the-art equipment, and effective cooperation between Actel and the foundry to produce acceptable yields. Minute impurities, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the photomasks used to print circuits on a wafer, and other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be non-functional. Yield problems increase the cost of our new products as well as time it takes us to bring them to market, which can create inventory shortages and dissatisfied customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain adequate yields or make deliveries of new products could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. New products generally have lower gross margins. Our gross margin is the difference between the amount it costs us to make our products and the revenues we receive from the sale of those products. One of the most important variables affecting the cost of our products is manufacturing yields. With our customized antifuse and flash manufacturing process requirements, we almost invariably experience difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. Until satisfactory yields are achieved, gross margins on new products are generally lower than on mature products. We have also sometimes offered price reductions on certain products to reduce inventory levels. The lower gross margins typically associated with new products could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Risks Related to Competitive Disadvantages The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include suppliers of ASICs, CPLDs, and FPGAs. Our biggest direct competitors are Xilinx, Altera, and Lattice, all of which are suppliers of CPLDs and SRAM-based FPGAs. Altera and Lattice have announced the development of FPGAs manufactured on embedded flash processes. We also directly compete with QuickLogic, a supplier of antifuse-based FPGAs. In addition, we face competition from suppliers of logic products based on new or emerging technologies. While we seek to monitor developments in existing and emerging technologies, our technologies may not remain competitive. We also face competition from companies that specialize in converting our products into ASICs. 18 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors are larger and have more resources. We are much smaller than Xilinx and Altera, which have broader product lines, more extensive customer bases, and substantially greater financial and other resources. Additional competition is also possible from major domestic and international semiconductor suppliers, all of which are larger and have broader product lines, more extensive customer bases, and substantially greater financial and other resources than Actel, including the capability to manufacture their own wafers. We may not be able to overcome these competitive disadvantages. Our antifuse technology is not reprogrammable, which is a competitive disadvantage in most cases. All existing FPGAs not based on antifuse technology and certain CPLDs are reprogrammable. The one-time programmability of our antifuse FPGAs is necessary or desirable in some applications, but logic designers generally prefer to prototype with a reprogrammable logic device. This is because the designer can reuse the device if an error is made. The visibility associated with discarding a one-time programmable device often causes designers to select a reprogrammable device even when an alternative one-time programmable device offers significant advantages. This bias in favor of designing with reprogrammable logic devices appears to increase as the size of logic devices increase. We have attempted to overcome this competitive disadvantage by offering reprogrammable flash devices, but antifuse FPGAs account for the bulk of our revenues and will continue to do so for some time. Our flash and antifuse technologies are not manufactured on standard processes, which is a competitive disadvantage. Our antifuse-based FPGAs and (to a lesser extent) flash-based FPGAs are manufactured using customized steps that are added to otherwise standard manufacturing processes of independent wafer suppliers. There is considerably less operating history for the customized process steps than for the foundries’ standard manufacturing processes. Our dependence on customized processing steps means that, in contrast with competitors using standard manufacturing processes, we generally have more difficulty establishing relationships with independent wafer manufacturers; take longer to qualify a new wafer manufacturer; take longer to achieve satisfactory, sustainable wafer yields on new processes; may experience a higher incidence of production yield problems; must pay more for wafers; and may not obtain early access to the most advanced processes. Any of these factors could be a material disadvantage against competitors using standard manufacturing processes. As a result of these factors, our products typically have been fabricated using processes at least one generation behind the processes used by competing products. As a consequence, we generally have not fully realized the benefits of our technologies. Although we generally attempt to obtain earlier access to advanced processes, we may not be able to overcome these competitive disadvantages. Risks Related to Events Beyond Our Control Our performance is subject to events or conditions beyond our control, and the performance of each of our foundries, suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, agents, and customers is subject to events or conditions beyond their control. These events or conditions include labor disputes, acts of terrorists, war or other military conflicts, blockades, insurrections, riots, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, storms, floods, washouts, arrests, civil disturbances, restraints by or actions of governmental bodies (including export, import, and security restrictions on information, material, personnel, equipment, software, and the like), breakdowns of plant or machinery, and inability to obtain transport or supplies. These events or conditions could impair our operations, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our operations and those of our partners are located in areas subject to volatile natural, economic, social, and political conditions. Our corporate offices are located in California, which has been subject to power outages and shortages. More extensive power shortages in the state could disrupt our operations and interrupt our research and development activities. Our foundry partners in Asia as well as our operations in California are located in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. In addition, many of the countries outside of the United States in which our 19 Table of Contents foundry partners and assembly and other subcontractors are located have unpredictable and potentially volatile economic, social, and/or political conditions. The occurrence of these or similar events or circumstances could disrupt our operations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We have only limited insurance coverage. Our insurance policies provide coverage for only certain types of losses and may not be adequate to fully offset even covered losses. If we were to incur substantial liabilities not adequately covered by insurance, our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be adversely (and perhaps materially) affected. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties We rely heavily on, but generally have little control over, our independent foundries, suppliers, subcontractors, and distributors, whose interests may diverge from our interests. Our independent wafer manufacturers may be unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs in a timely manner, which could harm our business. We do not manufacture any of the semiconductor wafers used in the production of our FPGAs. Our wafers are currently manufactured by GlobalFoundries Inc. (formerly Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd) in Singapore, Infineon Technologies AG in Germany, Panasonic Corporation (formerly Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd.) in Japan, and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) in Taiwan. Our reliance on independent wafer manufacturers to fabricate our wafers involves significant risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation, delivery schedules, the resolution of technical difficulties limiting production or reducing yields, and the development of new processes. Although we have supply agreements with some of our wafer manufacturers, a shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead any of our wafer suppliers to allocate available capacity to other customers, or to internal uses in the case of Infineon, which could impair our ability to meet our product delivery obligations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our limited volume and customized process requirements generally make us less attractive to independent wafer manufacturers. The semiconductor industry has from time to time experienced shortages in manufacturing capacity. When production capacity is tight, the relatively small number of wafers that we purchase from any foundry and the customized process steps that are necessary for our technologies put us at a disadvantage to foundry customers who purchase more wafers manufactured on standard processes. Our capability to shrink the die size of our FPGAs is dependent on the availability of more advanced manufacturing processes. Due to the customized steps involved in manufacturing our FPGAs, we typically obtain access to new manufacturing processes later than our competitors using standard manufacturing processes. No assurance can be given that our efforts to reduce costs by improving wafer yields will be successful. To secure an adequate supply of wafers, we may consider various transactions, including the use of substantial nonrefundable deposits, contractual purchase commitments, equity investments, or the formation of joint ventures. Any of these transactions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Identifying and qualifying new independent wafer manufacturers is difficult and might be unsuccessful. If our current independent wafer manufacturers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products as required, we would need to identify and qualify additional foundries. No additional wafer foundries may be able or willing to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis. Even if we were able to identify a new third-party manufacturer, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase. In any event, the qualification process typically takes one year or longer, which could cause product shipment delays, and qualification may not be successful. Any of these developments could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our independent assembly subcontractors may be unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, which could delay product shipments and result in the loss of customers or revenues. We rely primarily on foreign subcontractors for the assembly and packaging of our products and, to a lesser extent, for the testing of our finished products. Our reliance on independent subcontractors involves certain risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation and delivery schedules. We generally rely on one or two subcontractors to provide particular services for each product and from time to time have experienced difficulties with the timeliness and quality of product deliveries. We have no long-term contracts with our subcontractors and certain of those subcontractors sometimes operate at or near full capacity. Any significant disruption in supplies from, or degradation in the quality of components or services supplied by, our subcontractors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our independent software and hardware developers and suppliers may be unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs in a timely manner, which could impair the introduction of new products or the support of existing products. We are dependent on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply, maintenance, and support of some of our analog capabilities, IP cores, design and development software, programming hardware, design diagnostics and debugging tool kits, and demonstration boards (or certain elements of those products). Our reliance on independent developers involves certain risks, including lack of control over delivery schedules and customer support. Any failure of or significant delay by our independent developers to complete software and/or hardware under development in a timely manner could disrupt the release of our software and/or the introduction of our new products, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any failure of or significant delay by our independent suppliers to provide updates or customer support could disrupt our ability to ship products or provide customer support services, which might result in the loss of revenues or customers. Any of these disruptions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our future performance will depend in part on the effectiveness of our independent distributors in marketing, selling, and supporting our products. In 2009, sales made through distributors accounted for 70% of our net revenues, compared with 74% for 2008 and 77% for 2007. Our distributors offer products of several different companies, so they may reduce their efforts to win new designs or sell our products or give higher priority to other products. This is particularly a concern with respect to any distributor that also sells products of our direct competitors. A reduction in design wins or sales effort, termination of relationship, failure to pay for products, or discontinuance of operations because of financial difficulties or for other reasons by one or more of our current distributors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Distributor contracts generally can be terminated on short notice. Although we have contracts with our distributors, the agreements are terminable by either party on short notice. Avnet accounted for 35% of our net revenues in 2009 compared with 36% in 2008 and 40% in 2007. The loss of Avnet as a distributor, or a significant reduction in the level of design wins or sales generated by Avnet, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Fluctuations in inventory levels at our distributors can affect our operating results. Our distributors occasionally build inventories in anticipation of significant growth in sales and, when such growth does not occur as rapidly as anticipated, substantially reduce the amount of product ordered from us in subsequent quarters. Such a slowdown in orders generally reduces our gross margin because we are unable to take advantage of any manufacturing cost reductions while the distributor depletes its inventory. 21 Table of Contents Risk Related to the Conduct of International Business Substantially all of our operations, an increasing proportion of our internal functions, and a significant portion of our sales are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations. We depend on international operations for almost all of our products and will become increasingly dependent on international employees and contractors for many of our functions. We purchase all of our wafers from foreign foundries and have almost all of our commercial products assembled, packaged, and tested by subcontractors located outside of the United States. In addition, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we initiated a restructuring program in order to reduce our operating costs and focus our resources on key strategic priorities. A part of our restructuring plan involves increased offshoring, as a result of which many of our internal engineering, marketing, sales, and support functions will be conducted by employees located outside of the United States, and increased outsourcing, as a result of which many of our operational functions will be conducted by contractors located outside of the United States. These activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including trade barriers and other restrictions, changes in trade policies, governmental regulations, currency exchange fluctuations, reduced protection for intellectual property, war and other military activities, terrorism, changes in social, political, or economic conditions, and other disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our employees and facilities located outside of the United States are also subject to local regulation. We depend on international sales for a substantial portion of our revenues. Sales to customers outside North America accounted for 48% of net revenues in 2009, compared with 51% in 2008 and 50% in 2007, and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues. International sales are subject to the risks described above as well as generally longer payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable, and currency restrictions. We also maintain foreign sales offices to support our international customers, distributors, and sales representatives, which are subject to local regulation. In addition, international sales are subject to the export, import, and other security laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. Unlike our older RTSX-S space-grade FPGAs, our newer RTAX-S space-grade FPGAs are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which are administered by the U.S. Department of State. ITAR controls not only the export of products, but also the export of related technical data and defense services as well as foreign production. While we believe that we have obtained and will continue to obtain all required licenses for RTAX-S FPGA exports, we have undertaken corrective actions with respect to the other ITAR controls and are implementing improvements in our internal compliance program. If the corrective actions and improvements were to fail or be ineffective for a prolonged period of time, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Changes in United States export laws or regulations (or in the administration of such laws and regulations) that require us to obtain additional export licenses can cause significant shipment delays, as was the case in connection with a recent determination by the U.S. Department of State that our RTSX-SU space-grade FPGAs (a slightly modified version of our RTSX-S FPGAs manufactured for Actel by UMC in Taiwan) are subject to the ITAR. In addition, the fact that our RTAX-S and RTAX-SU space-grade FPGAs are ITAR-controlled make them less attractive to foreign customers, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Any future restrictions or assessments imposed by the United States or any other country on our international sales or sales offices could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Risk Related to Economic and Market Fluctuations We have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to conditions in the overall economy, in the general semiconductor industry, in our major markets, and at our major customers. We may again experience these fluctuations, which could be adverse and may be severe. 22 Table of Contents Our business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by economic downturns. During the second half of 2008, the global economy experienced a downturn due to the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about liquidity, slower economic activity, increased unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and generally adverse business conditions. The worldwide economic crisis caused many of our customers to curtail their spending, which in turn caused sharp declines in our revenues and operating results. Any future downturns in the global economy may have similar adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical and periodically subject to significant economic downturns, which are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated price erosion, and overcapacity. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000, we experienced (and the semiconductor industry in general experienced) reduced bookings and backlog cancellations due to excess inventories at communications, computer, and consumer equipment manufacturers and a general softening in the overall economy. During this downturn, which was severe and prolonged, we experienced lower revenues, which had a substantial negative effect on our operating results. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry may have a similar adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns in the military and aerospace market. We estimate that sales of our products to customers in the military and aerospace industries, which carry higher overall gross margins than sales of products to other customers, accounted for 41% of our net revenues in 2009 compared with 38% in 2008 and 32% in 2007. Any future downturn in the military and aerospace market could have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and/or operating results. Our revenues and/or operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns at any of our major customers. A relatively small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion our net revenues. We have experienced periods in which sales to one or more of our major customers declined significantly as a percentage of our net revenues. We believe that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of net revenues in future periods. The loss of a major customer, or decreases or delays in shipments to major customers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Our investments are subject to interest rate and other risks. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of asset-backed obligations, corporate bonds, floating-rate notes, and federal and municipal obligations. An increase in interest rates could subject us to a decline in the market value of our investments. This risk is mitigated by our ability to hold these investments for a period of time sufficient to recover the carrying value of the investment, which may not be until maturity. In addition, if the issuers of our investment securities default on their obligations, or their credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors, the value of our investments could decline and result in a material impairment. To mitigate these risks, we invest only in high credit quality debt securities with average maturities (when purchased) of less than two years. We also limit, as a percentage of total investments, our investment in any one issuer and in corporate issuers as a group. In the event that the carrying value of the investment exceeds its fair value and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair market value. Due to the sale of a bond in January 2010 at a loss of $0.3 million, we recognized an investment loss of $0.3 million as of January 3, 2010. We continue to monitor our investments closely to determine if additional information becomes available that may have an adverse impact on the fair value and ultimate realizability of our investments. If we concluded that any 23 Table of Contents of our remaining investments were other-than-temporarily impaired, our financial results for the periods in which the write-downs occurred would be adversely (and perhaps materially) affected. Other Risks We may be materially and adversely affected by changing rules and practices. Pending or new accounting pronouncements, corporate governance or public disclosure requirements, or tax laws or regulatory rulings, environmental or safety regulations, or rulings, or other federal, state, local, or foreign laws, regulations, rulings, or practices could have an effect, possibly material and adverse, on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Any change in accounting pronouncements, corporate governance or public disclosure requirements, taxation or other rules or practices, as well as any change in the interpretation of existing pronouncements, requirements, or rules or practices, may call into question our SEC or tax filings or other compliance efforts and could affect our treatment and reporting of transactions completed before the change. We may be unable to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and more recent related corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and therefore have invested the resources necessary to comply with the evolving laws, regulations, and standards. This investment has resulted in increased general and administrative expenses as well as a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we might be subject to lawsuits or sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The Nasdaq Global Market, and our reputation may be harmed. We evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent public accountants to attest to, our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In performing the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, we incurred significant additional expenses, which adversely affected our operating results and financial condition and diverted a significant amount of management’s time. While we believe that our internal control procedures are adequate, we may not be able to continue complying with the requirements relating to internal controls or other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion. If we were not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner in the future, we may be subject to lawsuits or sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our Common Stock. In any event, we expect that we will continue to incur significant expenses and diversion of management’s time to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. Any acquisition we make may harm our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. In pursuing our business strategy, we may acquire other products, technologies, or businesses from third parties. Identifying and negotiating these acquisitions may divert substantial management time away from our operations. An acquisition could absorb substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt obligations, and/or involve the issuance of Actel equity or debt securities. The issuance of additional equity securities may dilute, and could represent an interest senior to, the rights of the holders of our Common Stock. An acquisition would involve subsequent deal-related expenses and could involve significant write-offs (possibly resulting in a loss for the fiscal year(s) in which taken) and would require the amortization of any identifiable intangibles over a number of years, which would adversely affect earnings in those years. Any acquisition would require attention from our management to integrate the acquired entity into our operations, may require us to develop expertise outside our existing business, and could result in departures of management from either Actel or the acquired entity. An acquired entity could have unknown liabilities, and our business may not achieve the results anticipated at the time of the acquisition. The occurrence of any of these circumstances could disrupt our operations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. 24 Table of Contents We may face significant business and financial risk from claims of intellectual property infringement asserted against us, and we may be unable to adequately obtain or enforce our own intellectual property rights. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we are notified from time to time of claims that we may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. As we sometimes have in the past, we may obtain licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights that we are alleged to infringe. Although holders of patents or other intellectual property rights commonly offer licenses to alleged infringers, we may not be offered a license for patents or other intellectual property rights that we are alleged to infringe or we may not find the terms of any offered licenses acceptable. We may not be able to resolve any claim of infringement, and the ultimate resolution of any claim may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Our failure to resolve any claim of infringement could result in litigation or arbitration. In addition, we have agreed to defend our customers from and indemnify them against claims that our products infringe the patent or other intellectual rights of third parties. All litigation and arbitration proceedings, whether or not determined in our favor, can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation or arbitration involving intellectual property, we could suffer significant (and possibly treble) monetary damages, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We may also be required to discontinue the use of infringing processes; cease the manufacture, use, and sale or licensing of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or obtain licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights that we are infringing. In the event of a successful claim against us, our failure to develop or license a substitute technology on commercially reasonable terms could also have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We have devoted significant resources to research and development and believe that the intellectual property derived from such research and development is a valuable asset important to the success of our business. We rely primarily on patent and trade secret laws to protect the intellectual property developed as a result of our research and development efforts. As part of the Company’s cost-reduction efforts, we expect to reduce our rate of patent application filings in 2010. Every year we abandon some of our existing U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications that we perceive to have lesser value. As part of the Company’s cost-reduction efforts, we expect to increase the number of existing patents and pending patent applications that we abandon in 2010. These cost-reduction measures may reduce our ability to protect our products by enforcing, or defend the Company by asserting, our intellectual property rights against others. In addition to patent and trade secret laws, we rely on trademark and copyright laws in combination with nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which our products are developed, manufactured, or sold, including Asia and Europe, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to enforce our patents, trademarks, or copyrights or to protect our trade secrets could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to successfully develop our technologies, design our products, or operate, manage, or grow our business. Our success is dependent in large part on our ability to attract and retain key managerial, engineering, marketing, sales, and support employees. Particularly important are highly skilled design, process, software, and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. Our failure to recruit employees with the necessary technical or other skills or the loss of key employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. From time to time we have experienced growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, resulting in increased responsibilities for management personnel. To manage future growth effectively, we will need to attract, hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a growing number of employees. During strong 25 Table of Contents business cycles, we expect to experience difficulty in filling our needs for qualified engineers and other personnel. In addition, part of our restructuring plan involves increased offshoring, which will require us to attract and retain key managerial, engineering, marketing, sales, and support employees outside of the United States. Any failure to attract and retain qualified employees, or to manage our growth effectively, could delay product development and introductions or otherwise have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. In February 2010, we announced that John C. East will retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a member of the Board of Directors. He will remain in his current role until a new Chief Executive Officer is in place, and will then serve as a consultant until August 2, 2011. Our Board of Directors has formed a committee to conduct a search for a new President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. East will participate in the search, which will include both internal and external candidates. Our Board may not be able to identify and hire a suitable successor in the anticipated time period and the succession process may cause disruptions to our business. We have some arrangements that may not be neutral toward a potential change of control and our Board of Directors could adopt others. We have adopted an Employee Retention Plan that provides for payment of a benefit to our employees who hold unvested stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs) or restricted stock units (RSUs) in the event of a change of control. Payment is contingent upon the employee remaining employed for six months after the change of control (unless the employee is terminated without cause during the six months). Each of our executive officers has also entered into a Management Continuity Agreement, which provides for the acceleration of stock options, SARs, and RSUs unvested at the time of a change of control in the event the executive officer’s employment is actually or constructively terminated other than for cause following the change of control. While these arrangements are intended to make executive officers and other employees neutral towards a potential change of control, they could have the effect of biasing some or all executive officers or employees in favor of a change of control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” Preferred Stock with designations, rights, and preferences determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board is empowered, without approval by holders of our Common Stock, to issue Preferred Stock with dividend, liquidation, redemption, conversion, voting, or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Common Stock. Issuance of Preferred Stock could be used to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. In addition, issuance of Preferred Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. On October 17, 2003, our Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan. Under the Plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each share of Common Stock held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 10, 2003. The provisions of the Plan can be triggered only in certain limited circumstances following the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisitions of, or tender offers for, 15% or more of our Common Stock. The Shareholder Rights Plan is designed to guard against partial tender offers and other coercive tactics to gain control of Actel without offering a fair and adequate price and terms to all shareholders. Nevertheless, the Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Actel, even if our shareholders support the acquisition. Our stock price may decline significantly, possibly for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. The stock markets broadly, technology companies generally, and our Common Stock in particular have historically experienced price and volume volatility. Our Common Stock may continue to fluctuate substantially on the basis of many factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or other semiconductor companies; • changes in the expectations of analysts regarding our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or other semiconductor companies; • announcements of new products or technical innovations by Actel or by our competitors; or • general conditions in the semiconductor industry, financial markets, or economy. 26 Table of Contents Like many other stocks, the price of our Common Stock was adversely affected by the global economic crisis, and our stock price may similarly be subject to future declines. If our stock price declines sufficiently, we may write down our goodwill, which could have a materially adverse affect on our operating results. We account for goodwill and other intangible assets under FASB ASC 350, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Under this standard, goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The two-step impairment test identifies potential goodwill impairment and measures the amount of a goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any). The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. We are a single reporting unit under FASB ASC 350, so we use an enterprise approach to determine our total fair value. Since the best evidence of fair value is quoted market prices in active markets, we start with our market capitalization as the initial basis for the analysis. We also consider other factors including control premiums from observable transactions involving controlling interests in comparable companies as well as overall market conditions. As long as we determine our total enterprise fair value is greater than our book value and we remain a single reporting unit, our goodwill will be considered not impaired, and the second step of the impairment test under FASB ASC 350 will be unnecessary. If our total enterprise fair value were to fall below our book value, we would proceed to the second step of the goodwill impairment test, which measures the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of our goodwill with the carrying amount of our goodwill. As a result of this analysis, we may be required to write down our goodwill, and recognize a goodwill impairment loss, equal to the difference between the book value of goodwill and its implied fair value. If our long-lived assets become impaired, our operating results will be adversely affected. FASB ASC 350 also requires that intangible assets with definite lives be amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB ASC 360, Impairment or Disposal of Long Live Assets. During the second quarter of 2009, we recorded non-cash asset impairment charges totaling $5.5 million for certain manufacturing fixed assets that were determined to be in excess of current and expected future manufacturing requirements. Circumstances may arise in the future, such as a sustained decline in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of other long-lived assets may be impaired. If we are required to record a charge to earnings because an impairment of our long-lived assets is determined, our operating results will be adversely effected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 