Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves certain risks, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. In addition to the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this report, other risks and uncertainties not known to us, that are beyond our control or that we deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business operations. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you could lose all of or a part of your original investment. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information and data included in this report. Risks Related to ARCA’s Business Transitioning from a developmental stage company will require successful completion of a number of steps, many of which are outside of ARCA’s control and, consequently, ARCA can provide no assurance of its successful and timely transition from a developmental stage company. ARCA is a development stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. In addition, to date ARCA has not generated any product revenue and has historically funded its operations through investment capital. ARCA’s future growth depends on its ability to emerge from the developmental stage and successfully commercialize Gencaro and its other product candidates, which in turn, will depend, among other things, on ARCA’s ability to: • develop and obtain regulatory approval for Gencaro or other product candidates; • successfully partner a companion genetic test with the commercial launch of Gencaro; • build an internal specialty sales and marketing capability or enter into agreements with third parties to provide sales and marketing functions; • pursue additional indications for Gencaro and develop other product candidates, including other cardiovascular therapies; • raise additional capital to support the commercialization of Gencaro and other product candidates; • increase the size of its organization; • obtain commercial quantities of Gencaro or other product candidates at acceptable cost levels; and • successfully conduct and complete clinical trials for Gencaro and other product candidates. Any one of these factors or other factors discussed in this annual report could affect ARCA’s ability to successfully commercialize Gencaro and other product candidates, which could impact ARCA’s ability to earn sufficient revenues to transition from a developmental stage company and continue its business. If ARCA is not able to obtain FDA approval and successfully develop and commercialize Gencaro or another product candidate in a timely manner, it may not be able to continue its business operations. ARCA currently has no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. The process to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize potential product candidates is long, complex and costly. The Gencaro NDA is currently under FDA review. Gencaro is ARCA’s only product candidate at a late stage of clinical development. As a result, ARCA’s business is substantially dependent on its ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize Gencaro in a timely manner. In addition to Gencaro, ARCA currently plans to develop other product candidates, and is evaluating further clinical development of NU172, which has completed one Phase I clinical trial. This product candidate must be rigorously tested in clinical trials, and be shown to be safe and effective, before the FDA or other regulatory authorities outside the U.S. will consider it for approval. 22 Table of Contents Failure to demonstrate that one or more of ARCA’s product candidates is safe and effective, or significant delays in demonstrating such safety and efficacy, could adversely affect ARCA’s business. Failure to obtain marketing approval of one or more of ARCA’s product candidates from appropriate regulatory authorities, or significant delays in obtaining such approval, could also adversely affect ARCA’s business. If approved for sale, ARCA’s product candidates must be successfully commercialized. Failure to successfully commercialize one or more of ARCA’s product candidates could damage ARCA’s business, and, in particular, if the NDA for Gencaro is not approved, or is substantially delayed, or if ARCA is unable to successfully commercialize Gencaro, it may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue its business. If ARCA is unable to establish a direct sales force in the U.S., its business may be harmed. ARCA is currently building its sales organization. If Gencaro is approved by the FDA for commercial sale, ARCA intends to market Gencaro in the U.S. to physicians, hospitals and other health care providers using its own sales force. While certain ARCA employees have experience in establishing and managing a sales force, these employees have no such experience since being with ARCA. Commercialization of Gencaro in the U.S., particularly the establishment of a sales organization, will require substantial additional capital resources. If sufficient capital is not available on acceptable terms, we would need to consider alternative commercialization strategies for Gencaro. ARCA will need to incur significant additional expenses and commit significant additional management resources to establish a sufficient sales force for Gencaro. ARCA may not be able to successfully establish these capabilities even if it is able to secure sufficient capital resources for its commercialization efforts. If ARCA elects to rely on third parties to sell Gencaro and any other products, then it may receive less revenue than if it sold such products directly. In addition, ARCA may have little or no control over the sales efforts of those third parties. In the event ARCA is unable to sell Gencaro and other selected product candidates, either directly or through third parties, the commercialization of Gencaro may be delayed indefinitely and ARCA’s business may be harmed ARCA is relying upon LabCorp to obtain marketing clearance or approval of the companion Gencaro Test. There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant timely clearance or approval of the Gencaro Test, if at all, and failure to obtain such timely clearance or approval would adversely affect ARCA’s ability to market Gencaro. The drug label being sought for Gencaro would identify the patient receptor genotypes with a potential for enhanced efficacy, as well as those with a likelihood of a standard beta-blocker response and the smaller unfavorable subgroup with a low probability of benefit. Accordingly, ARCA believes it will be critical to the successful commercialization of Gencaro to develop a companion genetic test, or the Gencaro Test, that is simple to administer and widely available. The Gencaro Test is subject to regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in various foreign countries. The process of complying with the requirements of the FDA and comparable agencies is costly, time consuming and burdensome. Under ARCA’s agreement with LabCorp, LabCorp is responsible for determining the appropriate regulatory pathway for the Gencaro Test and obtaining market clearance or approval from the FDA. Based on FDA guidance, LabCorp has submitted a PMA regulatory submission, which the FDA formally accepted in January 2009. The FDA may decide that the Gencaro Test should be evaluated for clearance under the FDA’s 510(k) notification process. LabCorp and ARCA do not believe that any further clinical trials will be required for the Gencaro Test PMA, though there is no guarantee that FDA will not require additional clinical data. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory clearance or approval is never guaranteed. If regulatory clearance or approval is delayed, or if LabCorp is unable to obtain FDA approval of the Gencaro Test at all or in parallel with the approval of Gencaro, or is unable to commercialize the test successfully and in a manner that effectively supports ARCA’s commercial efforts, or if the information concerning the differential response to 23 Table of Contents Gencaro resulting from certain genetic variation is not included in the approval label for Gencaro, the commercial launch of Gencaro may be significantly and adversely affected. In such cases, ARCA could be forced to identify a new third-party test provider and obtain regulatory approval for that provider’s genetic test, which could substantially delay and negatively affect the commercial prospects for Gencaro. Future sales of Gencaro may suffer if its marketplace acceptance is negatively affected by the Gencaro Test. The Gencaro Test is an important component of the commercial strategy for Gencaro. ARCA believes that the Gencaro Test helps predict patient response to Gencaro, and that this aspect of the drug is important to its ability to compete effectively with current therapies. The Gencaro Test adds an additional step in the prescribing process, an additional cost for the patient and payors, the risk that the test results may not be rapidly available and the possibility that it may not be available at all to hospitals and medical centers. Although ARCA anticipates that Gencaro will be the first genetically-targeted cardiovascular drug, Gencaro will be one of a number of successful drugs in the beta-blocker class currently on the market. Prescribers may be more familiar with these other beta-blockers, and may be resistant to prescribing Gencaro as an HF therapy without efforts on ARCA’s part to educate prescribers. Any one of these factors could affect prescriber behavior, which in turn may substantially impede market acceptance of the Gencaro Test, which could cause significant harm to Gencaro’s ability to compete, and in turn harm ARCA’s business. ARCA will need to significantly increase the size of its organization and may experience difficulties in managing its growth. ARCA expects that it will need to substantially increase and modify its operations in the future to commercialize Gencaro and to conduct clinical trials for and commercialize any additional indications or markets for Gencaro and any future product candidates that ARCA acquires or develops, as well as to support the administrative functions of a public company. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, retain and integrate additional employees. ARCA’s future financial performance and its ability to commercialize its product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on its ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, ARCA must be able to: • manage its clinical trials effectively; • integrate current and additional management, administrative, financial and sales and marketing personnel; • hire new personnel necessary to effectively commercialize product candidates it licenses; • develop its administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional qualified personnel. Unless ARCA is able to generate sufficient product revenue, ARCA will continue to incur losses from operations and may not achieve or maintain profitability. ARCA’s historical losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on ARCA’s stockholders’ equity and working capital. Even if ARCA receives regulatory approval for any of its product candidates, including Gencaro, sales of such products may not generate sufficient revenue for it to achieve or maintain profitability. ARCA expects to incur increased general and administrative expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses. As a result, it expects to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing therapeutic drugs, ARCA may experience larger than expected future losses and may never reach profitability. 24 Table of Contents ARCA is dependent on key personnel, and it must attract and retain qualified employees, collaborators and consultants. The success of ARCA’s business is highly dependent on the principal members of ARCA’s scientific and management staff, including its Chairman of the Board, Michael R. Bristow, and its President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard, B. Brewer. The loss of the services of any such individual might seriously harm ARCA’s product development efforts. Recruiting and training personnel with the requisite skills is challenging and extremely competitive. ARCA’s product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time-consuming, and unsuccessful or delayed regulatory approvals could increase ARCA’s future development costs or impair ARCA’s future revenue. The preclinical and clinical development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, sale, and marketing, and distribution of ARCA’s product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and elsewhere. These regulations also vary in important, meaningful ways from country to country. ARCA is not permitted to market a potential drug in the United States until ARCA receives approval of an NDA from the FDA. ARCA has not received an NDA approval from the FDA for any of its product candidates. There can be no guarantees with respect to ARCA’s product candidates that clinical studies will adequately support an NDA, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. To receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidates, ARCA must demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities through preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials of the product candidates. This process is expensive and can take many years, and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. ARCA’s failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its product candidates will prevent regulatory approval and commercialization of such products. With respect to Gencaro, the FDA could determine that the preclinical studies and clinical trials conducted by or on Gencaro’s behalf were inadequate, and such a determination would prevent regulatory approval and commercialization of Gencaro. For instance, ARCA filed an NDA for Gencaro in July 2008, based primarily on a single Phase III trial. The FDA guidelines generally suggest that sponsors conduct two adequate and well-controlled studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate such as Gencaro in support of FDA approval. FDA interpretation of the statutory requirements also states that a single study may be sufficient to support approval if the FDA determines that, based on relevant science and other confirmatory evidence, there is strong evidence to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate using a single adequate and well-controlled study. If the FDA determines that the clinical data for Gencaro is not sufficiently strong to demonstrate Gencaro’s safety and efficacy for chronic heart failure, then Gencaro may not be approved by the FDA for ARCA’s proposed indications, may be approved for a more limited indication, or the FDA may require ARCA to conduct additional studies before approving Gencaro for chronic heart failure. Even if ARCA conducted additional studies and submitted the attendant data, FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. In the event that ARCA or its collaborators conduct preclinical studies that did not comply with Good Laboratory Practices or incorrectly design or carry out human clinical trials or those clinical trials fail to demonstrate clinical significance, ARCA will not likely be able to obtain FDA approval for product development candidates. ARCA’s inability to successfully and effectively complete clinical trials for any product candidates on schedule or at all will severely harm ARCA’s business. Significant delays in clinical development could materially increase product development costs or allow ARCA’s competitors to bring products to market before it does, impairing ARCA’s ability to effectively commercialize any future product candidates. ARCA does not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial because of safety concerns of regulators relating to ARCA’s product candidates or similar product candidates of ARCA’s competitors or failure to follow regulatory guidelines; 25 Table of Contents • delays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in trials; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites; • delays or failures in obtaining approval of ARCA’s clinical trial protocol from an institutional review board, or IRB, to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; • delays in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial, which may be due to the size of the patient population, eligibility criteria, protocol design, perceived risks and benefits of the drug, availability of other approved and standard of care therapies, availability of clinical trial sites; • other clinical trials seeking to enroll subjects with similar profile; • failure of ARCA’s clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices; • unforeseen safety issues, including negative results from ongoing preclinical studies; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • difficulty monitoring multiple study sites; and • failure of ARCA’s third-party contract research organizations, clinical site organizations and other clinical trial managers, to satisfy their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines. In addition, any approvals ARCA may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which it seeks approval. In addition, if ARCA chooses to make claims of superiority over currently marketed competitive products, ARCA must substantiate those claims with scientific evidence from prospectively designed head-to-head clinical trials. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use. If the FDA determines that a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks, ARCA may be required to include as part of the NDA a proposed REMS that may include a package insert directed to patients, a plan for communication with healthcare providers, restrictions on a drug’s distribution, or a Medication Guide to provide better information to consumers about the drug’s risks and benefits. Finally, an approval could be conditioned on ARCA’s commitment to conduct further clinical trials, which ARCA may not have the resources to conduct or which may negatively impact ARCA’s financial situation. In September 2008, the FDA formally accepted for filing ARCA’s NDA, for Gencaro, with the goal of completing its review of the NDA by May 31, 2009. Filing of the NDA indicates that the application is sufficiently complete to allow for FDA to review ARCA’s data supporting the safety profile and effectiveness of Gencaro, but does not guarantee approval. All of ARCA’s product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The results from preclinical animal testing and early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later human clinical trials. Further, although a new product may show promising results in preclinical or early human clinical trials, it may subsequently prove unfeasible or impossible to generate sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. The data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and elsewhere exercise substantial discretion in the drug approval process. The numbers, size and design of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA or other regulatory approval will vary depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition for which the product candidate is intended to be used and the regulations and guidance documents applicable to any particular product candidate. The FDA or other regulators can delay, limit or deny approval of any product candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • side effects; • safety and efficacy; 26 Table of Contents • defects in the design of clinical trials; • the fact that the FDA or other regulatory officials may not approve ARCA’s or ARCA’s third party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the fact that new regulations may be enacted by the FDA or other regulators may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations requiring new or different evidence of safety and efficacy for the intended use of a product candidate. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of certain drug products, revisions to certain drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials and approval. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety and the product’s risk/benefit profile, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense, and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. Aside from issues concerning the quality and sufficiency of submitted preclinical and clinical data, the FDA may be constrained by limited resources from reviewing and determining the approvability of the Gencaro NDA by May 31, 2009. Indeed, in early 2008, the FDA announced that due to a lack of resources, NDAs may not be reviewed within the performance goals under PDUFA, and from time to time, the FDA has extended the review period for NDAs. In addition, the manufacture and tableting of Gencaro is done by third party suppliers, who must pass a pre-approval inspection of their facilities before ARCA can obtain marketing approval. The FDA could also request additional information or data, including data from an additional Phase III study, which may extend the review period. In its NDA, ARCA has requested that the FDA approve Gencaro as a therapy that can be prescribed by physicians for patients with heart failure, and specifically for its effect on certain clinical outcomes for these heart failure patients. ARCA has also requested that certain information be included in the prescribing information distributed with Gencaro that shows the effect of genetic differences in patients on the clinical results for Gencaro. The FDA could approve Gencaro, but without including some or all of the prescribing information that ARCA has requested. For instance, FDA could approve Gencaro without some or all of the pharmacogenetic information in the labeling. This, in turn, could substantially and detrimentally impact ARCA’s ability to successfully commercialize Gencaro and effectively protect its intellectual property rights in Gencaro. ARCA has no manufacturing capacity which puts it at risk of lengthy and costly delays of bringing its products to market. ARCA does not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of its product candidates, including their active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API. ARCA has no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and it lacks the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of its product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. ARCA does not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. ARCA has contracted with Groupe Novasep to manufacture commercial quantities of the API for Gencaro. For drug production, ARCA has contracted with Patheon, Inc. to manufacture the Gencaro tablets. In addition, ARCA is dependent upon other third-party contract manufacturers to develop the necessary production processes and produce the volume of cGMP-grade material needed to complete the anticipated Phase II study of NU172. These contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute ARCA’s products. In the event of 27 Table of Contents errors in forecasting production quantities required to meet demand, natural disaster, equipment malfunctions or failures, technology malfunctions, strikes, lock-outs or work stoppages, regional power outages, product tampering, war or terrorist activities, actions of regulatory authorities, business failure, strike or other difficulty, ARCA may be unable to find an alternative third-party manufacturer in a timely manner and the production of its product candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs, which could impact ARCA’s ability to commercialize and sell its product candidates. ARCA or its contract manufacturers may also fail to achieve and maintain required manufacturing standards, which could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, an order by governmental authorities to halt production, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt its business. Contract manufacturers also often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, its contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing inspections and regulation by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state agencies and they may fail to meet these agencies’ acceptable standards of compliance. If ARCA’s contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable governmental regulations, such as quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation, ARCA may not be able to continue production of the API or finished product. If the safety of any API or product supplied is compromised due to failure to adhere to applicable law or for other reasons, this may jeopardize ARCA’s regulatory approval for Gencaro and other product candidates, and ARCA may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Upon the occurrence of one of the aforementioned events, the ability to switch manufacturers may be difficult for a number of reasons, including: • the number of potential manufacturers is limited and ARCA may not be able to negotiate agreements with alternative manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • long lead times are often needed to manufacture drugs; • the manufacturing process is complex and may require a significant learning curve; and • the FDA must approve any replacement prior to manufacturing, which requires new testing and compliance inspections. If ARCA’s product candidates receive regulatory approval, ARCA would be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expenses and limit its ability to commercialize other potential products. If a product candidate of ARCA is approved by the FDA or by another regulatory authority, ARCA would be held to extensive regulatory requirements over product manufacturing, testing, distribution, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting and other reporting to regulatory authorities, storage, advertising, marketing, promotion, distribution, and record keeping. Regulatory approvals may also be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidates. Potentially costly follow-up or post-marketing clinical studies may be required as a condition of approval to further substantiate safety or efficacy, or to investigate specific issues of interest to the regulatory authority. Previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions on the marketing or use of the product or the need for postmarketing studies, and could include suspension or withdrawal of the products from the market. Furthermore, ARCA’s third-party manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities that they use to make ARCA’s product candidates are regulated by the FDA. Quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and products manufactured annually with the FDA and certain state agencies and are 28 Table of Contents subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, state and/or other foreign authorities. Any subsequent discovery of problems with a product, or a manufacturing or laboratory facility used by ARCA or its collaborators, may result in restrictions on the product, or on the manufacturing or laboratory facility, including a withdrawal of the drug from the market or suspension of manufacturing. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. ARCA and its third-party manufacturers will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. The marketing and advertising of ARCA’s drug products by its collaborators or ARCA will be regulated by the FDA, certain state agencies or foreign regulatory authorities. Violations of these laws and regulations, including promotion of ARCA’s products for unapproved uses or failing to disclose risk information, are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions and may result in the issuance of enforcement letters or other enforcement action by the FDA, U.S. Department of Justice, state agencies, or foreign regulatory authorities that could jeopardize ARCA’s ability to market the product. In addition to the FDA, state or foreign regulations, the marketing of ARCA’s drug products by ARCA or its collaborators will be regulated by federal, state or foreign laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” such as the federal anti-kickback law prohibiting bribes, kickbacks or other remuneration for the order or recommendation of items or services reimbursed by federal health care programs. Many states have similar laws applicable to items or services reimbursed by commercial insurers. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Affairs healthcare programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, ARCA may be required to discontinue one or more of its practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against ARCA for violations of these laws, even if ARCA successfully defends against it, could have a material adverse effect on ARCA’s business, financial condition and results of operations. ARCA could also become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring a suit on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth in recent years. Some of these suits have been brought on the basis of certain sales practices promoting drug products for unapproved uses. This new growth in litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Affairs and other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. ARCA may become subject to such litigation and, if ARCA is not successful in defending against such actions, those actions may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. ARCA could also become subject to false claims litigation and consumer protection claims under state statutes, which also could lead to civil monetary penalties, restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in state health care programs. Of note, over the past few years there has been an increased focus on the sales and marketing practices of the pharmaceutical industry at both the federal and state level. Additionally, the law or regulatory policies governing pharmaceuticals may change. New statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of ARCA’s product candidates. ARCA cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or elsewhere. 29 Table of Contents If ARCA, its collaborators or its third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, ARCA’s business could be seriously harmed because a regulatory agency may: • issue untitled or warning letters; • suspend or withdraw ARCA’s regulatory approval for approved products; • seize or detain products or recommend a product recall of a drug or medical device, or issue a mandatory recall of a medical device; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by ARCA; • suspend any of ARCA’s ongoing clinical trials; • impose restrictions on ARCA’s operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements, and restrictions on ARCA’s sales, marketing and/or distribution of ARCA’s products; • seek an injunction; • pursue criminal prosecutions; • close the facilities of ARCA’s contract manufacturers; or • impose civil or criminal penalties. If LabCorp or certain of its third-party suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if there are unanticipated problems with the Gencaro Test, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any medical device for which LabCorp obtains clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. With respect to the Gencaro Test, to the extent applicable, LabCorp and certain of its suppliers will be required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and International Standards Organization, or ISO, requirements which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which clearance or approval is obtained. Regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, enforce the QSR and other regulations through periodic inspections. The failure by LabCorp, or certain of its third-party manufacturers or suppliers, as the case may be, to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, enforcement actions. If any of these actions were to occur, it could harm ARCA’s reputation and cause product sales and profitability of Gencaro to suffer and may prevent ARCA from generating revenue. Even if regulatory clearance or approval is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce ARCA’s potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If LabCorp or certain of its third party suppliers fail to supply the Gencaro Test, the product sales and profitability of Gencaro will suffer. LabCorp is ARCA’s single-source supplier of the Gencaro Test. If LabCorp or its third party suppliers were to cease or interrupt production of or otherwise fail to supply the Gencaro Test, or the materials required to produce it, in a timely manner or at all, ARCA could be unable to obtain a contract manufacturer of companion genetic test for Gencaro for an indeterminate period of time. This could adversely affect ARCA’s ability to satisfy demand for Gencaro, which could cause product sales and profitability of Gencaro to suffer and may have an adverse effect on the ARCA’s financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Medical devices related to Gencaro, such as the Gencaro Test, may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm ARCA’s reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a mandatory recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of ARCA’s products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, initiate a field correction or removal, known as a recall, for a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by ARCA’s third-party suppliers, including LabCorp, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Any such recalls would divert managerial and financial resources and may have an adverse effect on the ARCA’s financial condition and results of operations. If medical devices related to Gencaro, such as the Gencaro Test, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, ARCA’s third-party suppliers will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA’s medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of ARCA’s similar devices were to recur. If ARCA’s third-party suppliers, including LabCorp, fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against ARCA’s third-party suppliers, including LabCorp. Any such adverse event involving the Gencaro Test also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, taken by ARCA’s third-party suppliers, including LabCorp, may significantly affect ARCA’s ability to market Gencaro. In such cases, ARCA could be forced to identify a new third-party test provider for the Gencaro Test. LabCorp may need to conduct clinical trials to support current or future versions of the Gencaro Test. Delays or failures in any such clinical trials may prevent LabCorp from commercializing any modified or new versions of the Gencaro Test and will adversely affect ARCA’s business, operating results and prospects. Based on discussions with the FDA, ARCA and LabCorp do not believe that clinical data are needed for the Gencaro Test submission. However, the FDA may require clinical data for the Gencaro Test submission and/or future products. Initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to support 510(k)s or PMAs, if required, for current or future products will be time consuming and expensive and the outcome uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product ARCA or its third party suppliers, including LabCorp, advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including: the size of the patient population; the number of patients to be enrolled; the nature of the trial protocol; the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects; the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites; and the patients’ ability to meet the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of ARCA’s products or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable 31 Table of Contents risks or discomforts. In addition, patients participating in clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to investigational products. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required, and LabCorp, or ARCA may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Significant risk trials will require the submission and approval of an investigational device exemption, or IDE, from the FDA. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve LabCorp’s or ARCA’s future IDE submissions. Further, the FDA may require LabCorp or ARCA to submit data on a greater number of patients than originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to ARCA’s clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of future products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in such clinical trials, the FDA may not consider the data to be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect ARCA’s third party suppliers’, or ARCA’s business, operating results and prospects. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect ARCA’s or its suppliers’ ability to sell products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect the way that medical devices are marketed and promoted. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the Amendments, were enacted. The Amendments require, among other things, that the FDA propose, and ultimately implement, regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from the FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require manufacturers to take additional steps in the manufacture and labeling of medical devices. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, the Amendments require medical device manufacturers to, among other things, comply with clinical trial registration requirements once clinical trials are initiated. ARCA’s failure to establish and manage a distribution network for its products could delay or compromise the commercialization of Gencaro and other future products. ARCA has not yet established systems and processes necessary for distributing products to customers. ARCA plans to contract with one or more wholesale distributors to warehouse its products and distribute them to retail, hospital and other pharmacy suppliers that would then distribute its products directly to patients. This distribution network will require significant coordination with its sales and marketing and finance organizations. Failure to secure contracts with distribution services could negatively impact the distribution of ARCA’s products, if any, and failure to coordinate financial systems could negatively impact its ability to accurately report product revenue, if any. If ARCA is unable to effectively establish and manage the distribution process, then the commercialization of Gencaro and other product candidates may be delayed or severely compromised and ARCA’s results of operations may be harmed. If approved by the FDA, Gencaro will be entering into a competitive marketplace and may not succeed. Gencaro is a new type of beta-blocker and vasodilator being developed for heart failure and other indications. While ARCA anticipates that this drug will be the first genetically-targeted cardiovascular drug, Gencaro will be one of a number of successful drugs in the beta-blocker class currently on the market. Currently, 32 Table of Contents there are three branded beta-blockers indicated for chronic heart failure in New York Health Association, or NYHA class II-IV patients: TOPROL-XL (once-a-day formulation), Coreg and Coreg CR (once-a-day). TOPROL-XL and Coreg have generic equivalents commercially available in the U.S. (Metoprolol Succinate and Carvedilol, respectively). The price of the generic forms of these drugs will be less than the anticipated price of Gencaro, if approved. As a result, Gencaro may not be successful in competing against these existing drugs. Additionally, Forest Laboratories may apply for approval to use Bystolic, a drug currently used to treat high blood pressure, for treatment of heart failure. If approved for treatment of heart failure, Gencaro may not be successful in competing against Bystolic, an already well-known name brand. Accordingly, ARCA may not achieve its revenue goals, and its business may be harmed. ARCA’s commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than Gencaro. If products with any of these properties are developed, or any of the existing products are better marketed, then prescriptions of Gencaro by physicians and patient use of Gencaro could be significantly reduced or rendered obsolete and noncompetitive. Further, public announcements regarding the development of any such competing drugs could adversely affect the market price of ARCA’s common stock. Future sales of ARCA’s products may suffer if they are not accepted in the marketplace by physicians, patients and the medical community. Gencaro or ARCA’s other product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of Gencaro or ARCA’s other product candidates will depend on a number of factors, such as its effectiveness and tolerability, as compared with competitive drugs. Also, prevalence and severity of side-effects could negatively affect market acceptance of Gencaro or ARCA’s other product candidates. For example, side-effects of Gencaro observed during clinical trials included fatigue, dizziness and slowed heart beat. Failure to achieve market acceptance of Gencaro would significantly harm ARCA’s business. If ARCA is unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for Gencaro, or any other product candidates that ARCA may seek to commercialize, then its revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. ARCA’s ability to commercialize Gencaro, or any other product candidates that it may seek to commercialize, is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these product candidates will be available from: • governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; • private health insurers, including managed-care organizations; and • other third-party payors. Many patients will not be capable of paying for ARCA’s potential products themselves and will rely on third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. A primary current trend in the U.S. health care industry is toward cost containment. Large private payors, managed-care organizations, group purchasing organizations and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the reimbursed indications. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price ARCA might establish for products, which could result in product revenues lower than anticipated. If the prices for ARCA’s product candidates decrease or if 33 Table of Contents governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels, then ARCA’s revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. ARCA’s competitors may be better positioned in the marketplace and thereby may be more successful than ARCA at developing, manufacturing and marketing approved products. Many of ARCA’s competitors currently have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, managing manufacturing and marketing approved products than ARCA. Other early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. In addition, these third parties compete with ARCA in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring therapies and therapy licenses complementary to ARCA’s programs or advantageous to its business. ARCA expects that its ability to compete effectively will depend upon its ability to: • successfully and rapidly complete clinical trials for any future product candidates and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a cost-effective manner; • build an adequate sales and marketing infrastructure; • develop competitive formulations of its product candidates; • attract and retain key personnel; and • identify and obtain other product candidates on commercially reasonable terms. If ARCA fails to identify and license or acquire other products or product candidates, then it may be unable to expand its business, and the acquisition or licensing of other products or product candidates may put a strain on ARCA’s operations and will likely require ARCA to seek additional financing. One of ARCA’s key strategies is to license or acquire clinical-stage products or product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The market for licensing and acquiring products and product candidates is intensely competitive and many of ARCA’s competitors may have greater resources than ARCA. If ARCA undertakes any additional acquisitions, whether of product candidates or other biopharmaceutical companies, the process of integrating an acquired product, candidate or complementary company into ARCA’s business may put a strain on its operations, divert personnel, financial resources and management’s attention. If ARCA is not successful in identifying and licensing or acquiring other products or product candidates or completing future acquisitions, then it may be unable expand its pipeline of product candidates. In addition, any future acquisition would give rise to additional operating costs and will likely require ARCA to seek additional financing. Future acquisitions could result in additional issuances of equity securities that would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. Future acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or the amortization of expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect ARCA’s operating results. Any future product revenues could be reduced by imports from countries where ARCA’s product candidates are available at lower prices. Even if ARCA obtains FDA approval to market Gencaro or other products in the U.S., ARCA’s sales in the U.S. may be reduced if ARCA’s products are imported into the U.S. from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. In the U.S., prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico. There have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the U.S. If such legislation were enacted, then ARCA’s future revenues could be reduced. 34 Table of Contents If ARCA encounters difficulties enrolling patients in its clinical trials, its trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for ARCA’s product candidates require that ARCA identify and enroll a large number of patients with the disorder or condition under investigation. ARCA may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete its clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: • design of the protocol; • the size of the patient population; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including the off-label use of therapies approved for related indications; • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; • the success of ARCA’s personnel in making the arrangements with potential clinical trial sites necessary for those sites to begin enrolling patients; • patient referral practices of physicians; • availability of clinical trial sites; and • other clinical trials seeking to enroll subjects with similar profiles. If ARCA has difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct its clinical trials as planned, ARCA may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have a negative effect on its business. Delays in enrolling patients in ARCA’s clinical trials would also adversely affect its ability to generate product, milestone and royalty revenues and could impose significant additional costs on ARCA or on its collaborators. ARCA’s clinical trials for its product candidates may not yield results that will enable ARCA to further develop its products and obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell them. ARCA, and its collaborators, will only receive regulatory approval for its product candidates if ARCA can demonstrate in carefully designed and conducted clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective. ARCA does not know whether its current or any future clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and expensive processes with uncertain results. ARCA has spent, and expects to continue to spend, significant amounts of time and money in the clinical development of its product candidates. The results ARCA obtains in preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results that are obtained in later studies. ARCA may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, ARCA may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of one or more of ARCA’s product candidates. If ARCA fails to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its products under development, ARCA will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals to commercialize ARCA’s product candidates, and its business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Administering ARCA’s product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of ARCA’s product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of its product candidates for any or all targeted indications. 35 Table of Contents If clinical trials for a product candidate are unsuccessful, ARCA will be unable to commercialize the product candidate. If one or more of ARCA’s clinical trials are delayed, it will be unable to meet its anticipated development timelines. Either circumstance could cause the market price of ARCA’s common stock to decline. ARCA may not achieve its projected development goals in the time frames it announces and expects. ARCA sets goals for, and makes public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the disclosure of trial results, the obtaining of regulatory approval and drug product sales, which ARCA sometimes refers to as milestones. These milestones may not be achieved, and the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in ARCA’s clinical trials, disagreements with current or future collaborative partners, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and manufacturing scale-up and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize ARCA’s products. There can be no assurance that ARCA’s clinical trials will be completed, or that it will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned. If ARCA fails to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, its business will be materially adversely affected, and the price of ARCA’s shares will decline. ARCA would be subject to applicable regulatory approval requirements of the foreign countries in which ARCA markets its products, which are costly and may prevent or delay ARCA from marketing its products in those countries. In addition to regulatory requirements in the United States, ARCA would subject to the regulatory approval requirements in each foreign country where it markets its products. In addition, ARCA might be required to identify one or more collaborators in these foreign countries to develop, seek approval for and manufacture it products and any companion genetic test for Gencaro. If ARCA determines to pursue regulatory approvals and commercialization of its product candidates internationally, it may not be able to obtain the required foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and any failure to do so may cause ARCA to incur additional costs or prevent ARCA from marketing its products in foreign countries, which may have a material adverse effect on ARCA’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If ARCA cannot successfully integrate the Nuvelo organization, ARCA may not be able to operate efficiently after the merger or to realize any benefits from the merger. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part on the successful integration of ARCA’s and Nuvelo’s technical and business operations and remaining personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process requires coordination of the personnel of both companies, involves the integration of systems, applications, policies, procedures, business processes and operations and is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • consolidating research and development operations; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • preserving the research and development and other important relationships of the companies; • integrating and managing the technology of two companies; • using the combined company’s liquid capital and other assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; • appropriately managing the liabilities of the combined company; • diverting management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. 36 Table of Contents ARCA cannot assure you that it will receive any benefits of this or any other merger or acquisitions, or that any of the difficulties described above will not adversely affect the Company. The integration process may be difficult and unpredictable because of possible conflicts and differing opinions on business, scientific and regulatory matters. If the companies cannot successfully integrate their technical and business operations and personnel, ARCA may not realize the expected benefits of the merger. ARCA expects to incur significant costs integrating the companies into a single business. ARCA expects to incur significant costs integrating the technical and business operations and personnel of Nuvelo and ARCA, which may include costs for employee redeployment, relocation or severance, conversion of information systems, reorganization of facilities, disposition of excess facilities and relocation or disposition of excess equipment. The benefits of the merger may not be sufficient to justify these integration costs. Integrating the companies may divert the attention of ARCA’s management away from its operations. ARCA’s successful integration of Nuvelo’s technical and business operations and personnel into its own organization may place a significant burden on ARCA’s management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could result in delays in ARCA’s clinical trial and product development programs and could otherwise harm ARCA’s business, financial condition and operating results. ARCA has incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, ARCA has incurred and will continue to incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and related rules of the SEC and Nasdaq regulate corporate governance practices of public companies and impose significant requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with these public company requirements has increased ARCA’s costs, required additional resources and made some activities more time consuming. ARCA is required to expend considerable time and resources complying with public company regulations. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on ARCA’s business, operating results and stock price. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for ARCA to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. Prior to the recently completed merger involving Nuvelo, ARCA was not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Therefore, ARCA’s management only performed an evaluation of Nuvelo’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Material weaknesses may exist when ARCA reports on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting for purposes of its reporting requirements under the Exchange Act or Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for ARCA’s fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The existence of one or more material weaknesses would preclude a conclusion that ARCA maintains effective internal control over financial reporting. Such a conclusion would be required to be disclosed in ARCA’s future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and could impact the accuracy and timing of its financial reporting and the reliability of its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm ARCA’s reputation and cause the market price of its common stock to drop. ARCA’s investments in marketable debt securities are subject to credit risk that may adversely affect their fair value. ARCA maintains a significant portfolio of investments in marketable debt securities, which are recorded at fair value. To minimize ARCA’s exposure to credit risk, ARCA invests in securities with strong credit ratings 37 Table of Contents and has established guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objective of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity. ARCA does not invest in derivative financial instruments, mortgage-backed securities or auction rate securities, and ARCA has not recorded any losses on ARCA’s securities due to credit or liquidity issues. Since 2007, rising delinquency and default rates on subprime mortgages and declining home prices have caused a significant decline in the value of residential mortgage-backed securities, which has negatively impacted the entire credit market in the U.S. In recent months, certain other financial instruments have also sustained downgrades in credit ratings and declines in value. Further deterioration in the credit market may have an adverse effect on the fair value of ARCA’s investment portfolio. The continued economic downturn could adversely affect our business and operating results. The U.S. economy was in a recession through much or all of 2008, which has continued and deepened in 2009. As the global financial crisis has broadened and intensified, a severe recession appears likely. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is substantially reduced, and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending, reduced access to credit, cash flow shortages, deterioration of their businesses and lack of liquidity in the capital markets. Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in: • reductions to our workforce; • increased price competition, which may adversely affect the revenue and gross margins we anticipate from any of our product candidates, once commercialized; • financial strain on the health care system, which may lead to lower than anticipated sales of our product candidates, once commercialized; • the bankruptcy or insolvency of our collaborators and third party manufacturers; and • difficulties in forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into economic conditions. A prolonged national or regional economic recession, or other events that have produced or could produce major changes economic patterns, such as the housing market crisis, the credit crisis or a terrorist attack, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to ARCA’s Capital Structure and Stock Price Volatility ARCA is evaluating whether and when to raise additional funds through the public or private debt and equity markets. ARCA believes that its current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances are sufficient to fund operations through at least December 31, 2009. However, because of ARCA’s substantial capital requirements necessary to fund commercialization of Gencaro, if approved, ARCA will seek to access the public or private debt and equity markets. Additional funding may not be available to ARCA, and, if available, may not be on acceptable terms. ARCA’s future capital requirements depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • timing and outcomes of regulatory approvals, in particular the approval of ARCA’s NDA for Gencaro by the FDA; • the costs of commercializing ARCA’s product candidates once regulatory approvals are obtained, including the costs of establishing or contracting for marketing, sales and manufacturing capabilities, and other costs related to increasing the size of ARCA’s organization; • the extent to which ARCA is able to acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; 38 Table of Contents • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, strategic partnership or licensing agreements that ARCA may establish. If ARCA’s available cash and cash equivalents and funding received or made available are insufficient to satisfy its liquidity requirements, or if ARCA develops additional products or pursues additional applications for its products or conducts additional clinical trials beyond those currently contemplated, ARCA may seek to sell additional equity or incur additional indebtedness. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities may result in additional dilution to ARCA’s stockholders. If ARCA raises additional funds through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the obligations related to such indebtedness would be senior to rights of holders of ARCA capital stock and could contain covenants that would restrict ARCA’s operations. Any required additional funds may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If ARCA is unable to obtain additional financing, it may be required to modify or limit its planned research, development and commercialization strategies, which could adversely affect its business. Continued disruption in financial markets may affect ARCA’s ability to access sufficient funding. The global financial crisis and the broad domestic economic downturn have disrupted credit and equity markets globally, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. A continuation or worsening of these conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to refinance our indebtedness and access adequate funding to raise additional capital if needed, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. ARCA may be limited in its ability to access sufficient funding through a private equity or convertible debt offering. Nasdaq rules impose restrictions on ARCA’s ability to raise funds through a private offering of ARCA’s common stock, convertible debt or similar instruments without obtaining stockholder approval. Under Nasdaq rules, an offering of more than 20% of ARCA’s total shares outstanding for less than the greater of book or market value requires stockholder approval unless the offering qualifies as a “public offering” for purposes of the Nasdaq rules. As of March 17, 2009, ARCA had 7,567,399 shares of common stock outstanding, 20% of which is approximately 1,513,479 shares. If ARCA were to seek to raise funds through a private offering of stock, convertible debt or similar instruments, it would be limited in how much funding it could raise privately without requiring a stockholder vote and may instead be required to raise funding through a more costly public offering of its securities. Ownership of ARCA’s common stock is highly concentrated, and it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause ARCA’s stock price to decline. ARCA’s executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 49% of the outstanding common stock of ARCA as of January 27, 2009. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting individually or as a group, have substantial influence over the outcome of a corporate action of ARCA requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of ARCA’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change in control of ARCA, even if such change in control would benefit the other stockholders of ARCA. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the value of ARCA’s common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 39 Table of Contents ARCA’s stock price is expected to be volatile. ARCA’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of ARCA’s common stock to fluctuate include: • the regulatory status of Gencaro and the Gencaro Test, and whether and when they are approved for sale, if at all, and the labeling or other conditions of use imposed by the FDA; • the results of ARCA’s future clinical trials and any future NDAs of its current and future product candidates; • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key strategic alliance agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of ARCA’s product candidates; • failure of any of ARCA’s product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect ARCA’s research and development expenditures; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with ARCA’s product candidates; • issues in manufacturing ARCA’s product candidates or any approved products; • the initiation of material developments in or the conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of the ARCA’s intellectual property rights; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by competitors of ARCA; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover ARCA’s common stock; • future sales of ARCA’s common stock; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and • period-to-period fluctuations in ARCA’s financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of ARCA’s common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm ARCA’s profitability and reputation. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations and limit our ability to obtain additional investment capital and credit. ARCA’s subsidiary, ARCA biopharma Colorado, Inc., or ARCA Colorado, is a party to a Loan and Security Agreement dated July 17, 2007, as amended January 21, 2009, with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, under which SVB provided a growth capital facility of up to $4.0 million dollars, to be used solely for working capital and to fund ARCA’s general business requirements. As of March 2, 2009, approximately $3.5 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding under the SVB credit facility. No additional drawings are permitted under the credit facility. The credit facility is not subject to any prepayment penalties. All borrowings under this agreement bear interest at a floating per annum rate equal to SVB’s prime rate, which was 4.0% as of March 2, 2009. 40 Table of Contents The agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants including, without limitation, (i) covenants requiring ARCA Colorado to comply with applicable laws, provide to SVB copies of ARCA’s financial statements, maintain appropriate levels of insurance, protect, defend and maintain the validity and enforceability of ARCA Colorado’s material intellectual property, and (ii) covenants restricting ARCA Colorado’s ability to dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, engage in other lines of business, change its senior management, enter into transactions constituting a change of control, assume additional indebtedness, incur liens on its assets, among other covenants. ARCA Colorado’s obligations under the credit facilities are secured by all of ARCA Colorado’s assets. This indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations to third parties other than SVB; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less or no debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our ability to make future acquisitions. The SVB credit facility was to mature on March 23, 2009, but ARCA and SVB are in discussions to refinance the existing credit facility and extend the credit facility’s maturity date until December 1, 2010. Pending the execution and delivery of definitive documentation reflecting the refinancing of the credit facility, SVB has agreed to extend the maturity date of the credit facility until April 6, 2009. We may not be able to refinance the existing SVB credit facility on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of ARCA’s common stock may depress the market price of ARCA’s common stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of ARCA’s common stock could depress prevailing market prices of its common stock. As of March 17, 2009, ARCA had 7,567,399 shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, except for shares held by ARCA’s directors, officers and other affiliates and unregistered shares held by non-affiliates. Although ARCA does not believe that its directors, officers and other affiliates have any present intentions to dispose of large amounts of any shares of common stock owned by them, there can be no assurance that such intentions will not change in the future. The sale of these additional shares could depress the market price of ARCA’s common stock. As of March 17, 2009, ARCA had approximately 1.1 million shares of ARCA’s common stock which may be issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options. If and when these options are exercised, such shares are available for sale in the open market without further registration under the Securities Act. The existence of these outstanding options may negatively affect ARCA’s ability to complete future equity financings at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms. The exercise of those options, and the prompt resale of shares of ARCA’s common stock received, may also result in downward pressure on the price of ARCA’s common stock. 41 Table of Contents As of March 17, 2009, approximately 210,000 shares of ARCA’s common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, which were all exercisable as of this date. Once a warrant is exercised, if the shares of ARCA common stock issued upon the exercise of any such warrant are not available for sale in the open market without further registration under the Securities Act, then the holder can arrange for the resale of shares either by invoking any applicable registration rights, causing the shares to be registered under the Securities Act and thus freely transferable, or by relying on an exemption to the Securities Act. If these registration rights, or similar registration rights that may apply to securities ARCA may issue in the future, are exercised, it could result in additional sales of ARCA’s common stock in the market, which may have an adverse effect on ARCA’s stock price. ARCA may need to raise significant additional capital to finance its capital requirements, including the research, development and commercialization of its drug products. If future securities offerings are successful, they could dilute ARCA’s current stockholders’ equity interests and reduce the market price of its common stock. ARCA does not expect to pay cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. ARCA anticipates that it will retain its earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of its common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in its common stock. ARCA has implemented anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, prevent or delay a takeover, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to ARCA’s stockholders. Provisions of ARCA’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire ARCA, even if doing so would benefit ARCA’s stockholders. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of ARCA’s board may be elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of up to 5 million additional shares of preferred stock that could be issued by ARCA’s board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and hinder a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of ARCA’s stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to ARCA’s board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholder meeting. Specifically, ARCA’s certificate of incorporation provides that all stockholder action must be effected at a duly called meeting and not by a written consent. The bylaws provide, however, that ARCA’s stockholders may call a special meeting of stockholders only upon a request of stockholders owning at least 50% of ARCA’s common stock. These provisions of ARCA’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. ARCA designed these provisions to reduce ARCA’s vulnerability to unsolicited acquisition proposals and to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy fights. These provisions, however, could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for ARCA’s shares. As a consequence, they also may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of ARCA’s shares that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts. Such provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in ARCA’s management. 42 Table of Contents ARCA is permitted to issue shares of ARCA’s preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as ARCA’s board of directors determines. Therefore, the rights of the holders of ARCA’s common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of ARCA’s preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on the holdings of ARCA’s current stockholders. ARCA is subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for six years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. The provisions of ARCA’s governing documents and current Delaware law may, collectively: • lengthen the time required for a person or entity to acquire control of ARCA through a proxy contest for the election of a majority of ARCA’s board of directors; • discourage bids for ARCA’s common stock at a premium over market price; and • generally deter efforts to obtain control of ARCA. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Other Legal Matters ARCA is party to securities litigation, and defending these lawsuits could hurt ARCA’s business. The volatility of the market price could engender additional class action securities litigation. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action securities litigation has often been instituted against such a company. This risk is especially acute for biotechnology companies, which have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. Any such litigation instigated against ARCA could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm ARCA’s business, financial condition and operating results. For example, in December 2006, after Nuvelo announced that alfimeprase did not meet its primary endpoint in the first of two planned Phase III trials for the treatment of acute peripheral arterial occlusion and in the first of two planned Phase III trials for the treatment of catheter occlusion, the closing price of one share of Nuvelo’s common stock was $81 (as adjusted for the 20-to-1 reverse stock split) on the day of the announcement, as compared with a closing price of $391 (as adjusted for the 20-to-1 reverse stock split) on the trading day prior to the announcement. On February 9, 2007, Nuvelo and certain of Nuvelo’s former and current officers and directors were named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The suit alleged violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 related to the clinical trial results of alfimeprase, which Nuvelo announced on December 11, 2006, and sought damages on behalf of purchasers of Nuvelo’s common stock during the period between January 5, 2006 and December 8, 43 Table of Contents 2006. Specifically, the suit alleged that Nuvelo misled investors regarding the efficacy of alfimeprase and the drug’s likelihood of success. The plaintiff sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Three additional lawsuits were filed in the Southern District of New York on February 16, 2007, March 1, 2007 and March 6, 2007, respectively. On April 10, 2007, three separate motions to consolidate the cases, appoint lead plaintiff, and appoint lead plaintiff’s counsel were filed. On April 18, 2007, Nuvelo filed a motion to transfer the four cases to the Northern District of California. The Court granted Nuvelo’s motion to transfer the cases to the Northern District of California in July 2007. Plaintiffs have filed motions for consolidation, lead plaintiff and lead plaintiff’s counsel in the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs filed their consolidated complaint in the Northern District of California on November 9, 2007. Nuvelo filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs consolidated complaint on December 21, 2007. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to Nuvelo’s motion to dismiss on February 4, 2008. On June 12, 2008, the Court held a hearing on the motion to dismiss. On December 4, 2008, the Court issued an order dismissing plaintiff’s complaint, and granting leave to amend. On January 23, 2009, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, alleging similar claims. Based on the Court’s December 4, 2008 order, and plaintiff’s amended complaint, ARCA believes that any attorneys’ fees, loss or settlement payment with respect to this suit will be paid by its insurance providers. However, it is possible that ARCA could be forced to incur material expenses in the litigation if the case is not finally dismissed, or if the parties cannot achieve a settlement, and, in the event of an adverse outcome, ARCA’s business could be harmed. In addition, Variagenics, with which Nuvelo merged in 2003, has been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit alleging the failure to disclose additional and excessive commissions purportedly solicited by and paid to underwriters who are also named defendants in the lawsuit. Plaintiffs in the suit allege that underwriters took these commissions and in exchange allocated shares of Variagenics’ stock to their preferred customers through alleged agreements with these preferred customers that tied the allocation of initial public offering shares to agreements by the customers to make additional aftermarket purchases at pre-determined prices. As a result of Nuvelo’s merger with Variagenics, ARCA is obligated to continue to defend against this litigation. ARCA believes that any attorneys’ fees, loss or settlement payment with respect to this suit will not be material to ARCA’s financial position or results of operations, and that any loss, settlement payment or attorneys’ fees accrued with respect to the suit will be paid by Nuvelo’s insurance provider. Because of a recent court ruling, the settlement class, as defined in the settlement papers, is no longer feasible. While a new complaint has not been filed against Nuvelo, there are several “focus” cases against other issuers in which new complaints have been filed. Defendant issuers in the “focus” cases filed motions to dismiss the new complaints. On March 26, 2008, the District Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the “focus” issuers motions to dismiss. The “focus” issuers had been advised that plaintiffs intended to file new complaints against Nuvelo, but none have been filed yet. ARCA believes that any attorneys’ fees, loss or settlement payment with respect to this suit will be paid by Nuvelo’s insurance provider. However, it is possible that ARCA could be forced to incur material expenses in the litigation if the parties cannot achieve a settlement, and, in the event of an adverse outcome, ARCA’s business could be harmed. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against ARCA, then ARCA will incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of Gencaro or other product candidates. ARCA faces product liability exposure related to the testing of its product candidates in human clinical trials, and may face exposure to claims by an even greater number of persons once it begins marketing and distributing its products commercially. If ARCA cannot successfully defend itself against product liability claims, then it will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for its products and product candidates; • injury to its reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; 44 Table of Contents • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients and others; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize its products and product candidates. ARCA has obtained limited product liability insurance coverage. Such coverage, however, may not be adequate or may not continue to be available to ARCA in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost, or at all. ARCA may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing. Defending against claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals, radioactive or biological materials could be time consuming and expensive. ARCA’s research and development of product candidates may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, radioactive and biological materials. ARCA cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from the materials. Various laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. ARCA may be sued or be required to pay fines for any injury or contamination that results from its use or the use by third parties of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair its research, development and production efforts. The loss of any rights to market key products would significantly impair ARCA’s operating results. ARCA has licensed from CPEC, who has licensed rights in Gencaro from BMS, the exclusive rights to Gencaro for all therapeutic and diagnostic uses in any country until the later of (i) 10 years from the first commercial sale of Gencaro in such country, or (ii) the termination of ARCA’s commercial exclusivity in such country. This license includes a sublicense to ARCA from BMS. ARCA is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize Gencaro, including obtaining regulatory approvals. ARCA’s ability to develop and commercialize Gencaro is dependent on numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of its control. CPEC has the right to terminate ARCA’s license if ARCA materially breaches its obligations under the license agreement and fails to cure any such breach within the terms of the license. If ARCA’s license agreement with CPEC is terminated for reasons related to non-payment of fees, or for any other breach, then ARCA would have no further rights to develop and commercialize Gencaro for any indication. The termination of this license, or of any other agreement which enables ARCA to market a key product or product candidate, could significantly and adversely affect ARCA’s business. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that ARCA may be required to license to commercialize its product candidates or that could result in litigation that would be costly and time consuming. ARCA’s ability to commercialize Gencaro and other product candidates depends upon its ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell these drugs without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have or may be granted patents that cover technologies similar to the technologies owned by or licensed to ARCA. ARCA may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third party patents, which would likely require the payment of license fees or royalties or both. ARCA may also be unaware of existing patents that may be infringed by Gencaro, the genetic testing ARCA intends to use in connection with Gencaro or its other product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be other currently pending applications that may later result in issued patents that are infringed by Gencaro or ARCA’s other product candidates. Moreover, a license may not be available to ARCA on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 45 Table of Contents There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that ARCA is infringing on its technology, then ARCA’s business and results of operations could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims, even if without merit, are expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from ARCA’s core business; • monetary damage awards for past infringement can be substantial; • a court may prohibit ARCA from selling or licensing product candidates unless the patent holder chooses to license the patent to ARCA; and • if a license is available from a patent holder, ARCA may have to pay substantial royalties. ARCA may also be forced to bring an infringement action if it believes that a competitor is infringing its protected intellectual property. Any such litigation will be costly, time-consuming and divert management’s attention, and the outcome of any such litigation may not be favorable to ARCA. ARCA’s intellectual property rights may not preclude competitors from developing competing products and ARCA’s business may suffer. ARCA’s competitive success will depend, in part, on ARCA’s ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for its inventions, technologies and discoveries, including intellectual property that ARCA licenses. The patent positions of biotechnology companies involve complex legal and factual questions, and ARCA cannot be certain that ARCA’s patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using ARCA’s technology. Although Gencaro has an established patent strategy, the timing of the grant of a patent cannot be predicted. Patent applications describing and seeking patent protection of methods, compositions or processes relating to proprietary inventions involving human therapeutics could require ARCA to generate data, which may involve substantial costs. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, ARCA cannot be certain that any of its patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, that they will provide significant market protection or will not be circumvented or challenged and found to be unenforceable or invalid. In some cases, patent applications in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, ARCA cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, ARCA may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention or in opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office, any of which could result in substantial cost to ARCA, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. There can be no assurance that a court of competent jurisdiction would hold any patents issued valid. An adverse outcome could subject ARCA to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require ARCA to cease using such technology. ARCA could also incur substantial costs in seeking to enforce its proprietary rights against infringement. While the composition of matter patents on the compound have expired, ARCA holds the intellectual property arising from the discovery of the interaction of Gencaro with the polymorphisms of the ß1 and µ2c receptors. ARCA has filed patent applications that claim the use of Gencaro with the diagnosis of a patient’s receptor genotype. ARCA’s NDA requested a label that will include a claim that efficacy varies based on receptor genotype and a recommendation in the prescribing information that prospective patients be tested for their receptor genotype. Under applicable law, a generic bucindolol label would likely be required to include this recommendation as it pertains directly to the safe or efficacious use of the drug. Such a label could be considered as inducing infringement, carrying the same liability as direct infringement. Even if the patents are granted, the approved label may not contain language covered by the patents, or ARCA may be unsuccessful in enforcing them. 46 Table of Contents ARCA may not be able to effectively protect its intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the U.S. Furthermore, the patent applications describing ARCA’s proprietary methods are filed only in the U.S. ARCA requires its employees, consultants, business partners and members of its scientific advisory board to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment, consulting or business relationships with ARCA. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of the relationship with ARCA be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for ARCA, utilizing the property or relating to the business of ARCA and conceived or completed by the individual during employment shall be the exclusive property of ARCA to the extent permitted by applicable law. Third parties may breach these and other agreements with ARCA regarding its intellectual property, and ARCA may not have adequate remedies for the breach. Third parties could also fail to take necessary steps to protect ARCA’s licensed intellectual property, which could seriously harm ARCA’s intellectual property position. If ARCA is not able to protect its proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how, then its competitors may develop competing products. Any issued patent may not be sufficient to prevent others from competing with ARCA. Further, ARCA has trade secrets relating to Gencaro, and such trade secrets may become known or independently discovered. ARCA’s issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to ARCA, may be challenged, opposed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit ARCA’s ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the term of patent protection that ARCA may have for its product candidates. All of these factors may affect ARCA’s competitive position. If the manufacture, use or sale of ARCA’s products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, ARCA could face costly litigation, which could cause ARCA to pay substantial damages or licensing fees and limit its ability to sell some or all of its products. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation may be necessary to assert infringement claims, enforce patent rights, protect trade secrets or know-how and determine the enforceability, scope and validity of certain proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the U.S. and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. Regardless of merit or outcome, ARCA’s involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause ARCA to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of ARCA’s technical and management personnel. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against ARCA could cause ARCA’s stock price to decline. An adverse determination may subject ARCA to the loss of its proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require ARCA to seek licenses that may include substantial cost and ongoing royalties. Licenses may not be available from third parties, or may not be obtainable on satisfactory terms. An adverse determination or a failure to obtain necessary licenses may restrict or prevent ARCA from manufacturing and selling its products, if any. These outcomes could materially harm ARCA’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 47 Table of Contents 