Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to, the following factors related directly and indirectly to our business activities in the United States and Poland. Risks Relating to our Business Our success depends largely on our discovery of economic quantities of gas or oil in Poland. We currently have a limited amount of production in Poland and the United States. Our production volumes vary significantly because the limited number of producing wells in Poland makes our total production sensitive to individual well performance, as evidenced by the production volume declines during 2008 in Poland, where production from our Wilga well declined substantially below previous levels. We anticipate that our production will increase in 2009 as previously drilled wells are placed into production and that we will generate revenues in excess of direct lease operating costs. However, these revenues are not expected to be sufficient to cover all of our exploration and development costs. Accordingly, we will continue to rely on existing working capital, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility with RBS, and additional funds obtained from external sources, including industry partners, to cover these costs. 11 Our development efforts in Poland may be limited by the unavailability of additional borrowings. We have drawn the entire $25.0 million available under our Senior Credit Facility with RBS. This credit facility is based on RBS’s evaluation of our reserves in Poland as of November 2006 when we established the facility. Our reserves have increased substantially since establishing the credit facility with RBS, and we expect our reserve values to continue to increase if we make additional discoveries and as we place other wells into production. We believe a sizeable increase in our credit facility would be warranted but for the current global economic crisis. Due to extreme shortages of capital and liquidity, RBS, which had a market capitalization of over $105.0 billion two years ago, now has a market capitalization of less than $10.0 billion. After equity infusions aggregating about $45.0 billion during the last year, RBS will now be between 70% and 95% owned by the United Kingdom government and is undergoing substantial management and staff reorganization. Accordingly, we cannot predict how RBS will respond to requests for increased borrowings, notwithstanding our compliance with the terms of our credit facility agreement and substantial increases in reserve quantities and values. In view of the current global banking and economic crisis, there is a severe shortage of available capital for project financing in general, and we have no other established borrowing relationships with banks or other sources of project financing. Therefore, we cannot assure that we can obtain borrowings from other sources to supplement or replace our current credit facility with RBS. Our inability to expand our borrowings would restrict the amount of capital we are able to apply in our development programs in Poland. The over 70% decline in our stock price from its 2008 high and the prevailing condition in the equity markets make additional equity financing currently unlikely. Our stock price has declined more than 70% from its 2008 peak and, as of early March 2009, 46% over the preceding 12 months. These price declines are typical throughout the equity markets generally and in the gas and oil segment specifically. In these market conditions we cannot assure that the equity markets will be accessible or that we would be willing to sell equity at the prices that may be required in order to attract capital. The recent sharp decline in global oil prices below mid-2008 unprecedented highs could have a future negative impact on the price we receive for gas in Poland. Global oil prices have dropped rapidly from unprecedented mid-2008 highs to lower prices at year-end, and gas prices in the United States have also decreased significantly. The decline in world oil prices may, in the future, depress the prices at which we sell gas in Poland to POGC pursuant to published tariffs for gas sold to wholesale consumers. Such tariffs are determined in part by reference to the cost of Russian imported gas, which in turn is priced based on trailing, historical oil prices. The trailing impact of such lower prices may influence tariff price reductions and so may reduce the price that we may receive for our gas from POGC. Declining oil prices have a direct impact on our domestic revenues. The fall in oil prices means our oil revenues will decline until such time as prices recover. Declining oil prices resulted in property impairments of $3.8 million related to our domestic producing properties during 2008, and further impairments of the remaining $0.3 million would be likely in the event of further price declines. We may incur additional losses due to exchange rate fluctuations. Continuing fluctuations in the rates at which U.S. dollars are exchanged into Polish zlotys may result in exchange rate losses in addition to the approximately $888,000 in losses related to open Polish forward contracts that we recognized at December 31, 2008. Increases in the exchange rate above the rate of 2.9 zlotys per dollar at December 31, 2008, would result in additional losses during the current quarter. We could also suffer additional future losses if we purchase new forward contracts in an effort to protect against further exchange rate fluctuations. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations as we transfer dollar denominated funds from the United States to Poland for exploration and development and receive payment for the gas we sell in Poland in zlotys. We record receivables and payables in U.S. dollars and recognize a gain or loss when the receivables or payables are subsequently settled at different exchange rates. As the U.S. dollar strengthens, our U.S. dollar denominated revenue received in Polish zlotys declines; conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens, our U.S. dollar denominated revenue received in Polish zlotys increases. Should exchange rates in effect during early 2009 continue throughout the year, we expect the exchange rates to have a negative impact on our U.S. dollar denominated revenues, but a corresponding positive impact on the U.S. dollar cost of our capital expenditures in Poland. 12 We have limited control over our exploration and development activities in Poland. Our partner, POGC, holds the majority interest and is operator of our Fences project area and has a minority interest in our Wilga project area. As a paying partner, we rely to a significant extent on the financial capabilities of POGC. If POGC were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, we have prepared our exploration budget through 2009 and beyond based on the participation of and funding to be provided by POGC. Although we have rights to participate in exploration and development activities on some POGC-controlled acreage, we have limited rights to initiate such activities. Further, we have no direct interest in some of the underlying agreements, licenses, and grants from the Polish agencies governing the exploration, exploitation, development, or production of acreage controlled by POGC. Thus, our program in Poland involving POGC-controlled acreage would be adversely affected if POGC should elect not to pursue activities on such acreage, if the relationship between us and POGC should deteriorate or terminate, or if POGC or the governmental agencies should fail to fulfill the requirements of, or elect to terminate, such agreements, licenses, or grants. We cannot assure the exploration models we are using in Poland will lead to finding gas or oil in Poland. We cannot assure the exploration models we and POGC have developed will provide a useful or effective guide for selecting exploration prospects and drilling targets. We will have to revise or replace these exploration models as a guide to further exploration if ongoing drilling results do not confirm their validity. These exploration models may be based on incomplete or unconfirmed data and theories that have not been fully tested. The seismic data, other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the area do not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling that gas or oil will be present in commercial quantities. The fact that some prospects may appear to have similar geological or geophysical subsurface features or may be located in proximity to previous wells cannot assure that such prospects are in fact similar or that drilling results will be comparable. Every prospect must be evaluated individually. We cannot assure that the analogies that we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects, or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. We use various methods to evaluate various categories of potential gas or oil accumulations. This report contains estimates of quantities and values of proved reserves as estimated in accordance with deterministic methods and criteria established by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also use probabilistic methods commonly used in Europe and other parts of the world for estimating the quantity and value of gas and oil accumulations for various purposes, including determining the amount that we may borrow under our Senior Credit Facility with RBS. For purposes of management decisions and risk analysis, we use other geological and geophysical techniques to determine gross, unrisked resource potential. These various methods are important in making many kinds of management decisions at various stages during the exploration, development, and production process, but the quantities and values arrived at through these various methods are not comparable and should not be compared. We cannot assure that any gas or oil quantities or values that we estimate using probabilistic methods will ever be converted through additional exploration and production into PV-10 Values estimated in accordance with deterministic methods required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We cannot accurately predict the size of exploration targets or foresee all related risks. Notwithstanding the accumulation and study of 2-D and 3-D seismic data, drilling logs, production information from established fields, and other data, we cannot predict accurately the gas or oil potential of individual prospects and drilling targets or the related risks. We sometimes predict the gross potential gas or oil in a particular area as part of our evaluation of the exploration potential and related risks. Our predictions are only rough, preliminary geological estimates of the forecasted volume and characteristics of possible reservoirs and the calculated potential gas or oil that could be contained if present and are unqualified by any risk evaluation. Such forecasts are not an assurance that our exploration will be successful or that we will be able to establish reserves equal to such forecasts. In some cases, our estimates may be based on a review of data from other exploration or producing fields in the area that ultimately may be found not to be similar to our exploration prospects. We may require several test wells and long-term analysis of test data and history of production to determine the gas or oil potential of individual prospects. 13 We have had limited exploratory success in Poland. Since 1995, we have participated in drilling 28 exploratory wells in Poland, including seven commercial discoveries (the Wilga 2, Kleka 11, Zaniemysl-3, Sroda-4, Winna Gora-1, Roszkow-1, and Kromolice-1), and 21 noncommercial wells. Of our seven commercial successes in Poland, we were producing gas at our Wilga 2, Zaniemysl-3, and Kleka 11 wells as of December 31, 2008. We may not achieve the results anticipated in placing our current or future discoveries into production. We may encounter delays in commencing the production and the sale of gas in Poland, including our recent gas discoveries and other possible future discoveries. The possible delays may arise in obtaining rights-of-way to connect to the POGC pipeline system, obtaining construction permits, availability of materials and contractors, the signing of gas or oil purchase/sales contracts, and other factors. Such delays would correspondingly delay the commencement of cash flow and may require us to obtain additional short-term financing pending commencement of production. Further, we may design proposed surface and pipeline facilities based on possible estimated results of additional drilling. We cannot assure that additional drilling will establish additional reserves or production that will provide an economic return for planned expenditures for facilities. We may have to change our anticipated expenditures if costs of placing a particular discovery into production are higher, if the project is smaller, or if the commencement of production takes longer than expected. Privatization/Nationalization of POGC could affect our relationship and future opportunities in Poland. Our activities in Poland have benefited from our relationship with POGC, which has provided us with exploration acreage, seismic data, and production data under our agreements. The Polish government commenced the privatization of POGC by selling POGC’s refining assets in the mid-90s and by successfully completing an initial public offering of approximately 15% of its stock. Complete privatization or a re-nationalization of POGC may result in new policies, strategies, or ownership that could adversely affect our existing relationship and agreements, as well as the availability of opportunities with POGC in the future. We have a history of operating losses and may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations. From our inception in January 1989 through December 31, 2008, we have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $160 million. We expect that our exploration and production activities may continue to result in net losses through 2009 and possibly beyond, depending on whether our activities in Poland and the United States result in sufficient revenues to cover related operating expenses. Until sufficient cash flow from operations can be obtained, we expect we will need additional capital to fully fund our ongoing planned exploration, appraisal, development, and property acquisition programs in Poland. We may seek required funds from the issuance of additional debt, equity or hybrid securities, project financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Obtaining additional financing may dilute the interest of our existing stockholders or our interest in the specific project being financed. We cannot assure that additional funds could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms favorable to us. In addition to planned activities in Poland, we may require additional funds for general corporate purposes. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse impact on our operations. We rely on our officers, key employees, and consultants and their expertise, particularly David N. Pierce, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas B. Lovejoy, Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President; Andrew W. Pierce, Vice President-Operations; Jerzy B. Maciolek, Vice President-Exploration; Zbigniew Tatys, Poland Country Manager; and Richard Hardman, Director and Chairman of our Technical and Advisory Panel. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may materially and adversely affect us. We have entered into employment agreements with our key executives. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our employees. 14 Substantially all of the gas and oil currently produced in Poland is sold to a single customer or its affiliates. We currently sell substantially all of the gas and oil produced in Poland to POGC or one of its affiliates. If POGC were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on us. As discussed previously, the market for the sale of gas in Poland is open to competition, but there are not yet many participants. While our contracts provide us with the ability to market gas to other purchasers, including those outside of Poland, it may take a considerable amount of time to replace POGC as our primary customer. Gas and oil price decreases and volatility could adversely affect our operations and our ability to obtain financing. Gas and oil prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors: • the market and price structure in local markets; • changes in the supply of and demand for gas and oil; • market uncertainty; • political conditions in international gas and oil producing regions; • the extent of production and importation of gas and oil into existing or potential markets; • the level of consumer demand; • weather conditions affecting production, transportation, and consumption; • the competitive position of gas or oil as a source of energy, as compared with coal, nuclear energy, hydroelectric power, and other energy sources; • the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities; • the refining and processing capacity of prospective gas or oil purchasers; • the effect of governmental regulation on the production, transportation, and sale of gas and oil; and • other factors beyond our control. We have not entered into any agreements to protect us from price fluctuations and may or may not do so in the future. Our industry is subject to numerous operating risks. Insurance may not be adequate to protect us against all these risks. Our gas and oil drilling and production operations are subject to hazards incidental to the industry. These hazards include blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, releases of toxic gas, and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. To lessen the effects of these hazards, we maintain insurance of various types to cover our domestic and international operations. We cannot assure that the insurance policies carried by us or by POGC, as operator of the Fences area, can continue to be obtained on reasonable terms. While we do carry limited third-party liability and all-risk insurance in Poland, we do not plan to purchase well control insurance on wells we drill in the Fences project area and may elect not to purchase such insurance on wells drilled in other areas in Poland as well. The current level of insurance does not cover all of the risks involved in 15 gas and oil exploration, drilling, and production. Where additional insurance coverage does exist, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full amount of such liabilities. We may not be insured against all losses or liabilities that may arise from all hazards because such insurance is unavailable at economic rates, because of limitations on existing insurance coverage, or other factors. For example, we do not maintain insurance against risks related to violations of environmental laws. We would be adversely affected by a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance. Further, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Risks Relating to Conducting Business in Poland Polish laws, regulations, and policies may be changed in ways that could adversely impact our business. Our gas and oil exploration, development, and production activities in Poland are and will continue to be subject to ongoing uncertainties and risks, including: • possible changes in government personnel, the development of new administrative policies, and practices and political conditions in Poland that may affect the administration of agreements with governmental agencies or enterprises; • possible changes to the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to us and our partners or the gas and oil industry in Poland in general; • uncertainties as to whether the laws and regulations will be applicable in any particular circumstance; • uncertainties as to whether we will be able to enforce our rights in Poland; • uncertainty as to whether we will be able to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Polish authorities, our and POGC’s compliance with governmental requirements respecting exploration expenditures, results of exploration, environmental protection matters, and other factors; • the inability to recover previous payments to the Polish government made under the exploration rights or any other costs incurred respecting those rights if we were to lose or cancel our exploration and exploitation rights at any time; • political instability and possible changes in government; • export and transportation tariffs; • local and national tax requirements; • expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises and other risks arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our acreage in Poland; and • possible significant delays in obtaining opinions of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements in connection with a grant of permits to conduct exploration and production activities. Poland has a developing regulatory regime, regulatory policies, and interpretations. Poland has a regulatory regime governing exploration and development, production, marketing, transportation, and storage of gas and oil. These provisions were promulgated during the past two decades and are relatively untested. Therefore, there is little or no administrative or enforcement history or established practice that can aid us in evaluating how the regulatory regime will affect our operations. It is possible those governmental policies will change or that new laws and regulations, administrative practices or policies, or interpretations of existing laws and regulations will materially and adversely affect our activities in Poland. For example, Poland’s laws, policies, and procedures were changed to conform to the requirements that had to be met before Poland was admitted as a full member of the European Union. 16 Our gas and oil operations are subject to changing environmental laws and regulations that could have a negative impact on our operations. Operations on our project areas are subject to environmental laws and regulations in Poland that provide for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases, or emissions of various substances produced in association with gas and oil exploration and development. Additionally, if significant quantities of gas are produced with oil, regulations prohibiting the flaring of gas may inhibit oil production. In such circumstances, the absence of a gas gathering and delivering system may restrict production or may require significant expenditures to develop such a system prior to producing gas and oil. We are required to prepare and obtain approval of environmental impact assessments by governmental authorities in Poland prior to commencing gas or oil production, transportation, and processing functions. We are also subject to the requirements of Natura 2000, which is an ecological network in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe. We and our partners cannot assure that we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations in drilling wells, acquiring seismic data, or completing other activities in Poland to date. The Polish government may adopt more restrictive regulations or administrative policies or practices. The cost of compliance with current regulations or any changes in environmental regulations could require significant expenditures. Further, breaches of such regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, any of which may be material. These environmental costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. Certain risks of loss arise from our need to conduct transactions in foreign currency. The amounts in our agreements relating to our activities in Poland are sometimes expressed and payable in U.S. dollars and sometimes in Polish zlotys. Conversions between U.S. dollars and Polish zlotys are typically made on the date amounts are paid or received. In the future, our financial results and cash flows in Poland may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Polish zloty and the U.S. dollar. Currencies used by us may not be convertible at satisfactory rates. In addition, the official conversion rates between United States and Polish currencies may not accurately reflect the relative value of goods and services available or required in Poland. Further, inflation may lead to the devaluation of the Polish zloty. The interests that we hold in concessions and usufructs owned in the name of POGC may be jeopardized or lost, without compensation to us, in the event of POGC’s bankruptcy, persistent breaches of laws such as environmental requirements, winding up, or other circumstances. The Poland Ministry of the Environment, which administers the Geologic and Mining Law, has the authority to terminate concessions and usufructs in the name of POGC and in which we have a fractional undivided interest if POGC is declared bankrupt, persistently violates environmental regulations or other laws, is wound up, rescinds the concession, or otherwise breaches material usufruct or concession terms. There can be no assurance that POGC’s current 85% government ownership will continue or that the Poland government will in any circumstance intervene to prevent POGC’s insolvency or bankruptcy. We may not be able to implement effective measures to preserve and protect our property interests by curing any concession or usufruct default by POGC, assuring fair compensation in the event of any such loss, or implementing new legal strategies that would insulate our interests from loss due to POGC’s actions or condition. 17 Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock Our stockholder rights plan and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on our common stock. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests that include: • provisions that members of the board of directors are elected and retire in rotation; and • the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of, and to issue new series of, preferred shares. Together, these provisions and our stockholder rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment to our stockholders of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common shares. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. Our common stock has traded as low as $2.05 and as high as $8.66 during intraday trading between January 1, 2008, and the date of this report. Some of the factors leading to this volatility include: • the outcome of individual wells or the timing of exploration efforts in Poland; • the potential sale by us of newly issued common stock to raise capital or by existing stockholders of restricted securities; • price and volume fluctuations in the general securities markets that are unrelated to our results of operations; • the investment community’s view of companies with assets and operations outside the United States in general and in Poland in particular; • actions or announcements by POGC that may affect us; • turmoil in the financial sector which may impact our revolving credit facility; • prevailing world prices for gas and oil; • the potential of our current and planned activities in Poland; and • changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other gas and oil companies, or the gas and oil industry in general. Exploration failures in Poland may adversely affect the trading prices for our common stock. _____________________________________________________________________________________ ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS _____________________________________________________________________________________ None. 18 _____________________________________________________________________________________ 