ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of material risks, including the following factors related directly and indirectly to our business activities in Poland and the United States. Risks Relating to our Business Our long-term success depends largely on our discovery and production of economic quantities of gas or oil in Poland. We anticipate that our production will increase in 2014 from 2013 levels as previously drilled wells are placed into production and that we will generate revenues in excess of direct lease operating costs as well as anticipated general and administrative costs. However, these revenues will not be sufficient to cover all of our planned exploration and development costs. Accordingly, we will continue to rely on existing working capital, borrowings under our current credit facility secured by future production from our reserves, additional funds obtained from the sale of equity securities, other external sources, and industry partners to cover these costs. If we are unable to obtain the funds that we seek from these sources for our exploration and development plans, we may be required to reduce our capital expenditures. We may incur additional losses due to exchange-rate fluctuations. Continuing fluctuations in the rates at which U.S. dollars are exchanged into Polish zlotys may result in ongoing noncash exchange-rate losses. We are subject to exchange-rate fluctuations as we transfer dollar-denominated funds from the United States to Poland for exploration and development and receive payment in zlotys for the gas we sell in Poland. As the dollar strengthens relative to the zloty, our dollar-denominated revenue received in zlotys declines; conversely, when the dollar weakens relative to the zloty, our dollar-denominated revenue received in zlotys increases. Should exchange rates in effect during early 2014 continue throughout the year, we expect the exchange rates to have a slightly positive impact on our dollar-denominated revenues in 2014 compared to 2013, with a corresponding increase in the dollar cost of our capital expenditures in Poland. Applicable exchange rates may be adversely affected by the continuing European debt and financial crises. We have limited control over our exploration and development activities in Poland. Our partner, PGNiG, holds the majority interest and is operator of our Fences project area, where our principal production and reserves are located. As a paying partner, we rely to a significant extent on the financial capabilities of PGNiG, which bears a share of the costs of many projects as a joint owner. If PGNiG were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In particular, we have prepared our exploration budget through 2014 and beyond based on the participation of, and funding to be provided by, PGNiG. Although we have rights to participate in exploration and development activities on some PGNiG-controlled acreage, we have limited rights to initiate such activities, which might slow the pace at which we would like to advance our exploration and development efforts. Similarly, as operator, PGNiG controls the level of production as well as other day-to-day operating details. Our ability to conduct certain activities may be affected by whether PGNiG classifies such activities as exploratory or development because of different internal budgetary considerations. Our program in Poland involving PGNiG-controlled acreage would be adversely affected if PGNiG should elect not to pursue activities on such acreage, if our relationship with PGNiG should deteriorate or terminate, or if PGNiG or the governmental agencies should fail to fulfill the requirements of, or elect to terminate, such agreements, licenses, or grants. In our Block 287 area, we are dependent on the financial ability of a different industry participant to pay the costs of agreed development activities. We may undertake this work at our own cost or seek replacement industry participants if this third party fails to pay these costs. 12 We cannot assure the exploration models we are using in Poland will lead to finding gas or oil in Poland. We cannot assure the exploration models we or PGNiG develop will provide a useful or effective guide for our exploration or development activities, including selecting exploration prospects and drilling targets. We continually review and revise or replace these exploration models as a guide to further exploration based on new data, including drilling results and interpretations. These exploration models are typically based on incomplete or unconfirmed data and theories that have not been fully tested. The seismic data, other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the area do not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling that gas or oil will be present in commercial quantities, even for development wells. The fact that some prospects may appear to have similar geological or geophysical subsurface features or may be located near previous wells cannot assure that such prospects are actually similar or that drilling results will be comparable. Every prospect is unique and must be evaluated individually. We cannot assure that the analogies that we draw from available data from other wells, fully explored prospects, or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects or will enable us to forecast accurately drilling results. Our statements respecting the quantities of potential gas or oil accumulation that we estimate for management purposes should not be converted into reserves. For purposes of management decisions and risk analysis, we use a variety of geological, engineering, and geophysical techniques to estimate probable or possible reserves and gross, unrisked resource potential. These various methods are important in making many kinds of management decisions during the exploration, development, and production process, but the quantities and values estimated through these methods are not comparable and should not be compared. We cannot assure that any gas or oil quantities or values that we estimate through alternative methods will ever be converted through additional exploration and production into reserves. Our estimates of proved oil and gas reserves and future net revenues are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our estimates of oil and gas reserves, calculated by independent, third-party engineering firms, are based on various assumptions and estimates and are very complex and interpretative, as there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, projecting future sales of production, and the timing and amount of development expenditures. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our proved reserve estimates are subject to continuing revisions as additional information becomes available or assumptions change. Although they rely in part on objective information, engineering evaluations of oil and gas reservoirs are essentially subjective processes of estimating the size, characteristics, and recoverability of underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured exactly. The actual production and future net revenues that we obtain from our oil and gas properties may vary substantially from the factors and assumptions that have been used in completing these estimates, including: ● our data regarding the geological, geophysical, and engineering characteristics of the underground reservoir; ● known production from other properties that we believe are analogs to our own wells; ● the assumed effects of regulatory requirements and government royalties and other payments; ● the costs of the construction of production facilities and pipeline connections and the timing of completing those facilities; ● production and other operating policies and practices of PGNiG, the operator of most of our productive wells; 13 ● the effect of certain terms that could be changed in the future, including gas and oil exploitation fees, royalty rates, pricing discounts or adjustments, and similar items; ● market prices and demand for the oil and gas we produce; and ● oil and gas quality and impurities that reduce the sales prices we actually receive below the posted or contract price. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules for estimating oil and gas reserves, we use deterministic methods to determine proved reserves, based on 12-month average prices. The estimates of economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular property, the classifications of those reserves based on risk or probability of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from such properties prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times or with different assumptions may vary substantially. Therefore, reserve estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustments, and actual production, revenue, and related expenditures are likely to vary, in some cases materially, from estimates. We may be unable to meet the reserve and future cash flow criteria to support the borrowing base of our credit facility. We are required to maintain minimum amounts of reserves and estimated future net cash flows in order to maintain our current $65.0 million borrowing base, which is redetermined every six months. If we fail to maintain such minimums, we would be required to reduce the borrowing base and pay down the principal balance if our outstanding borrowing exceeds the redetermined borrowing base, so that our reserves and cash flows provide adequate security to the lenders. Further, we will need to increase reserves and estimated future cash flows in order to increase the commitment up to $100 million under certain conditions via an embedded accordion mechanism. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain existing or increase borrowings from these lenders. We cannot accurately predict the size of exploration targets or foresee related risks. Notwithstanding the accumulation and study of 2-D and 3-D seismic data, drilling logs, drill-stem tests, production information from established fields, and other engineering, geological, and geophysical data, we cannot predict accurately the gas or oil potential of individual prospects and drilling targets or the related risks. We sometimes estimate the gross potential or possible reserves of gas or oil in a particular area as part of our evaluation of the exploration potential and related risks. Our estimates are only rough, preliminary geological forecasts of the volume and characteristics of possible reservoirs and the calculated potential gas or oil that could be contained if present and are unqualified by any risk evaluation. These forecasts are not an assurance that our exploration will be successful or that we will be able to establish reserves equal to such forecasts. In some cases, our estimates of possible reserves or oil and gas potential may be based on a review of data from other exploration or producing fields in the area that ultimately may be found not to be analogous to our exploration prospects. We may require several test wells and long-term analysis of test data and history of production to determine the gas or oil potential of individual prospects. We may continue to have exploration failures in Poland. From 1995 through early 2014, we have participated in drilling or recompleting 45 exploratory wells in Poland, including 15 commercial discoveries, 27 noncommercial wells, and three wells that were undergoing further evaluation at year-end 2013. Of our 15 commercial successes in Poland, as of the date of this report we were producing gas at 10 wells, including seven in our Fences concession and three in our Block 287 concession. Production from two other commercial discoveries is scheduled to begin in 2014 or early 2015 once requisite permits are obtained and production facilities are constructed. Three early wells have been fully exploited and no longer produce. 14 We may not achieve the results anticipated in placing our current or future discoveries into production. We currently estimate that it may take approximately two years or more to place a completed gas well on line so that we can commence production and sell gas from such well in Poland. We may encounter delays in commencing the production and sale of gas in Poland from our recent gas discoveries and other possible future discoveries. We may face delays in obtaining rights-of-way to connect to the PGNiG pipeline system, construction permits, and materials and contractors; signing gas or oil purchase/sales contracts; negotiating price and payment details; receiving commitments for required capital expenditures by PGNiG; and managing other factors. Such delays could correspondingly postpone the commencement of cash flow and may require us to increase our reliance on borrowings under our credit line pending commencement of production. Further, we may design and construct surface and pipeline facilities to accommodate anticipated production from future wells, but we cannot assure that any future wells will establish additional reserves or production that will provide an economic return for expenditures for those facilities. We may have to change our anticipated expenditures if costs of placing a particular discovery into production are higher, if the actual production is smaller than projected, or if the commencement of production takes longer than expected. Further, producing wells for which PGNiG acts as the operator generally are produced at levels that are established by and acceptable to it, which may be lower as compared to the productive capacity of similar wells in the United States. We have a history of operating and net losses and may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations. From our inception in January 1989 through December 31, 2013, we have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $198 million. Our exploration and production activities may continue to result in net losses through 2014 and possibly beyond, depending on whether our activities in Poland and the United States are successful and result in sufficient revenues to cover related operating expenses. Until sufficient cash flow from operations can be obtained, we expect we will need additional capital to fully fund our ongoing planned exploration, appraisal, development, and property maintenance and acquisition programs in Poland. In addition to our long-term project financing, we may seek required funds from the issuance of additional debt, equity or hybrid securities, project financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Obtaining additional financing may dilute the interest of our existing stockholders or our interest in the specific project being financed. We cannot assure that additional funds could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms favorable to us. In addition to planned activities in Poland and the United States, we may require additional funds for general corporate purposes. We may not fulfill our work commitments on the exploration rights we hold in Poland. We are subject to certain exploration concession work commitments that must be satisfied in order to maintain our interest in those concessions. Our exploration budget and related activities may not be focused specifically or primarily on meeting these work commitments. We may not be able to retain any concession rights on areas for which we do not timely complete required work commitments. We cannot assure that we will be granted any requested changes to usufruct and concession agreements that either modify the obligations to reduce our commitments or extend the terms of those agreements. We may lose our rights to exploration acreage if we cannot obtain required changes or extensions. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse impact on our operations. We rely on our officers, key employees, and consultants and their expertise, particularly David N. Pierce, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas B. Lovejoy, Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President; Andrew W. Pierce, Vice President-Operations; Jerzy B. Maciolek, Vice President-Exploration; Zbigniew Tatys, Poland Country Manager, and Richard Hardman, Director and Chairman of our Board Technical and Advisory Panel. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may disrupt our activities as we seek a replacement. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our key executives, we may not be able to retain such key executives. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our employees. 15 The price we receive for gas in Poland is currently determined based on trailing Russian prices. The prices at which we sell gas in Poland to PGNiG are determined pursuant to published tariffs for gas sold to wholesale consumers. Such tariffs are determined, in part, by reference to the cost of Russian imported gas, the price of which, in turn, is based, in part, on trailing oil prices. The trailing impact of lower oil prices may have a depressive effect on such tariffs, and so may reduce the price that we receive for our gas from PGNiG. Conversely, because the tariffs are determined, in part, by trailing prices, increases in oil prices may result in higher tariffs for the gas we sell in Poland. Changes in the mechanism for determining the applicable tariff may also result in lower prices for gas that we may sell. Substantially all of our natural gas currently produced in Poland is sold to a single purchaser, PGNiG, or its affiliates. We currently sell substantially all of the natural gas we produce in Poland to PGNiG or one of its affiliates. If PGNiG were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on us. The market for the sale of gas in Poland is open to competition, but there are not yet many market participants. While our contracts provide us with the ability to market gas to other purchasers, including those outside of Poland, we do not expect to diversify our gas purchasers in the foreseeable future. The prices at which we sell gas in Poland in the future may be adversely affected by prices established in a developing competitive market in the Polish gas exchange. Poland has adopted legislation to establish a Polish gas exchange on which an increasing portion of natural gas is to be marketed in an effort to create a competitive gas price market to replace the current government-determined tariff price. We cannot assure that gas prices in the emerging Polish gas exchange, as it develops over the ensuing months and years, will be as high as those that we might otherwise obtain under tariff prices established under the current system. Oil and gas price volatility could adversely affect our operations and our ability to obtain financing. Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors: ● the market and price structure in markets locally and in Russia, on which Polish gas tariffs are based; ● changes in the mechanism for determining the applicable tariff for pricing gas; ● changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas; ● market uncertainty; ● the opening of a new natural gas exchange in Poland; ● the impact of potential climate change on oil and gas demand and prices; ● political conditions in international oil and gas producing regions; ● the extent of production and importation of oil and gas into existing or potential markets; ● the level of consumer demand; ● weather conditions affecting production, transportation, and consumption; ● the competitive position of gas or oil as a source of energy, as compared with coal, nuclear energy, hydroelectric power, and other energy sources; 16 ● the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities; ● the refining and processing capacity of prospective gas or oil purchasers; ● the effect of governmental regulation on the production, transportation, and sale of oil and gas; and ● other factors beyond our control. We have not entered into any agreements, including hedging arrangements, to protect us from price fluctuations and may or may not do so in the future. Our industry is subject to numerous operating risks. Insurance may not be adequate to protect us against all these risks. Our oil and gas drilling and production operations are subject to hazards incidental to the industry. These hazards include blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, releases of toxic gas, and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. To lessen the effects of these hazards, we maintain insurance of various types to cover our domestic and international operations. We cannot assure that the insurance policies carried by us or by PGNiG, as operator of the Fences area, can continue to be obtained on reasonable terms. While we do carry limited third-party liability and all-risk insurance in Poland, we do not plan to purchase well control insurance on wells we drill in the Fences project area. We may purchase such insurance on Company-operated wells drilled in other areas in Poland, and currently carry well control insurance for the Tuchola-4K well, which began drilling in early 2014. The current level of insurance does not cover all of the risks involved in oil and gas exploration, drilling, and production. Where additional insurance coverage does exist, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full amount of such liabilities. We may not be insured against all losses or liabilities that may arise from all hazards because such insurance is unavailable at economic rates, because of limitations on existing insurance coverage, or other factors. For example, we do not maintain insurance against risks related to violations of environmental laws or damages resulting from hydraulic fracturing. We would be negatively affected by a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance. Further, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Our operations are subject to potential litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. From time to time we may be a defendant in various lawsuits, including claims or civil or criminal proceedings based on environmental claims. The nature of our operations exposes us to further possible litigation claims in the future. There is risk that any matter in litigation could be decided unfavorably against us regardless of our belief, opinion, and position, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. Litigation can be very costly, and the costs associated with defending litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Adverse litigation decisions or rulings may damage our business reputation. We face competition from larger oil and gas companies, which could result in adverse effects on our business. The exploration and production business is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs, and facilities. Our competitors in Poland and the United States include numerous major oil and gas exploration and production companies. The effects of global climate change could adversely impact the market demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. The value of our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities is and will continue to be a function of the market demand for oil and gas products. If global climate change results in rising average global temperatures, the market demand for oil and gas products used in residential and commercial heating fuels may decrease. This could result in a decrease in demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. 17 Concerns regarding global climate change could spur legislation or regulation, globalized through treaties or otherwise, that could diminish global demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. Our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities in Poland are subject to Poland’s laws and regulations, some of which are designed to meet the requirements of the European Union. Future legislation and regulation could be a part of globalized efforts similar to the Kyoto Protocol, regional systems such as the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, or other campaigns in response to concerns regarding global climate change. Such laws or regulations could result in taxes or direct limitations on the production of fossil fuels that could diminish global market demand for oil and gas products or curtail or limit our activities in Poland and correspondingly have a negative impact on our business. We spent a total of $321,000 in prior years for oil leak cleanup costs and may incur additional significant costs related to this or other environmental matters. Following a June 2011 oil leak at our Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit in Montana, we spent approximately $321,000 in completing cleanup, mitigation, and restoration pursuant to an approved plan in cooperation with the Blackfeet Tribe and the United States Environmental Protection Agency, commonly referred to as the EPA. We cannot assure that the satisfactory completion of the cleanup according to the specifications provided by the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA will not result in additional costs or sanctions. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties in the United States and Poland, we are subject to various federal, tribal, state, local, and foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for pollution damages, require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas, and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions or fines, with attendant negative publicity. Our efforts to limit our exposure to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies could require us to make significant capital expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact our cash flows and our financial condition. Compliance with environmental requirements may not be offset by our limited oil production revenue in Montana. We have limited oil production in Montana, so substantial environmental compliance, mitigation, and reclamation costs may not be offset by revenue from ongoing production from the wells or facilities involved in any incident or even the entire field. Accordingly, environmental costs expose our entire Montana operations, and the subsidiary through which such operations are conducted, to risk. Our United States operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations. Our United States operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and by federal, state, tribal, and local laws and regulations such as restrictions on production; changes in taxes, royalties, and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies; price or gathering rate controls; and environmental protection laws and regulations. New political developments, laws, and regulations may adversely impact our results on operations. Polish legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to explore and produce from our properties. We may use hydraulic fracturing in vertical and horizontal wells in Poland to enhance oil and natural gas production. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that involves injecting water, sand, and chemicals into the foundation under high pressure to fracture the surrounding rock to stimulate production. In Poland, in 2013 we unsuccessfully hydraulically fractured the Plawce-2 well. In Poland, the requirement that we provide an environmental impact assessment and seek specific regulatory authority before hydraulically fracturing wells in the Plawce area might result in delays, increase costs, and require us to alter planned activities. 18 Adoption of legislation or implementation of regulations placing restrictions on, or imposing reporting and disclosure obligations regarding, hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increase operating costs, and add regulatory burdens on our exploration and production activities, which could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, resulting in reduced amounts of oil and natural gas being produced and booked as reserves in the future, delayed exploration and development, and increased costs of compliance and doing business. Such consequences could limit the potential upside of any activities we undertake in Poland. The demand for hydraulic fracturing expertise and equipment may make it difficult for us to complete our planned hydraulic fracturing. Many oil and gas exploration firms in Poland have expanded their use of hydraulic fracturing, and the resulting demand on the availability of third parties with fracturing expertise and equipment, particularly in Poland, may make it difficult for us to complete planned fracturing activities within estimated schedules or budgets. Our activities may be directly or indirectly adversely affected by unauthorized invasion of our data processing and communications systems. We are dependent on a number of computerized data storage and processing and communications systems to operate our business and interconnect our activities in Poland and Montana with our principal executive offices in Utah. We use these systems to gather and store raw exploration, development, and production data; interpret geophysical and geological data as part of our exploration and development activities; model the resource potential and reserves or project areas; forecast production; administer contracts with third parties; gather and report financial and other data to our stockholders and regulatory authorities; and complete other critical functions throughout the company. Our vendors and suppliers also rely on similar systems in conducting their own businesses. Our reliance, like others in the industry, on these technologies makes us increasingly vulnerable to risks of technological failures resulting from others gaining unauthorized access, intentional and unintentional cyber incidents, network failures, breaches of security, and similar events that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, destruction of proprietary and other information, including the release of such information to competitors, or other damaging disruption of our activities. We cannot assure that the measures we implement to protect against these kinds of cyber risks will be successful or that our operations will not be adversely affected by cyber events. We expect that the financial and managerial resources that we devote to protective measures or to remediate breaches will increase. Risks Relating to Conducting Business in Poland A substantial amount of our revenues is attributable to our operations in Poland. Any disruption in production, development, or our ability to produce and sell oil in Poland would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. Polish laws, regulations, and policies may be changed in ways that could adversely impact our business. Our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities in Poland are and will continue to be subject to ongoing uncertainties and risks, including: ● possible changes in government personnel, the development of new administrative policies, and practices and political conditions in Poland that may affect the administration of agreements with governmental agencies or enterprises; ● possible changes to the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to our partners and us or the oil and gas industry in Poland in general; ● the potential adoption of an entirely new regulatory regime for the exploration, development, extraction, and taxation of all natural resources, including oil and gas; ● uncertainties as to whether the laws and regulations will be applicable in any particular circumstance; 19 ● uncertainties as to whether we will be able to enforce our rights in Poland; ● uncertainty as to whether we will be able to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Polish authorities, PGNiG’s and our compliance with governmental requirements respecting exploration expenditures, results of exploration, environmental protection matters, and other factors; ● the inability to recover previous payments to the Polish government made under the exploration rights or any other costs incurred respecting those rights if we were to lose or cancel our exploration and exploitation rights at any time; ● political instability and possible changes in government; ● export and transportation tariffs; ● local and national tax requirements; ● expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises and other risks arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our acreage in Poland; and ● possible significant delays in obtaining opinions of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements in connection with a grant of permits to conduct exploration and production activities. Our operations are concentrated in Poland such that any impediment to these operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Poland has a developing regulatory regime, regulatory policies, and interpretations. Poland has a regulatory regime governing exploration and development, production, marketing, transportation, and storage of oil and gas. These provisions were promulgated during the past two decades and are relatively untested. Therefore, there is little or no administrative or enforcement history or established practice that can aid us in evaluating how the regulatory regime will affect our operations. It is possible those governmental policies will change or that new laws and regulations, administrative practices or policies, or interpretations of existing laws and regulations will materially and adversely affect our activities in Poland. For example, many of Poland’s laws, policies, and procedures were changed to conform to the requirements that had to be met before Poland was admitted as a full member of the European Union. Further, since the history and practice of industry regulation is sparse, our activities may be particularly vulnerable to the decisions and positions of individuals, who may change, be subject to external pressures, or administer policies inconsistently. Internal bureaucratic politics may have unpredictable and negative consequences. Our oil and gas operations are subject to changing environmental laws and regulations that could have a negative impact on our operations. Operations on our project areas are subject to environmental laws and regulations in Poland that provide for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases, or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas exploration and development. Additionally, if significant quantities of gas are produced with oil, regulations prohibiting the flaring of gas may inhibit oil production. In such circumstances, the absence of a gas-gathering and delivering system may restrict production or may require significant expenditures to develop such a system prior to producing oil and gas. We are required to prepare and obtain approval of environmental impact assessments by governmental authorities in Poland prior to commencing gas or oil production, transportation, and processing functions. We are also subject to the requirements of Natura 2000, which is an ecological network in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe. 20 Neither our partners nor we can assure that we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations in drilling wells, acquiring seismic data, or completing other activities in Poland to date. The Polish government may adopt more restrictive regulations or administrative policies or practices. The cost of compliance with current regulations or any changes in environmental regulations could require significant expenditures. Further, breaches of such regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, any of which may be material. These environmental costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. Privatization or nationalization of PGNiG could affect our relationship and future opportunities in Poland. Our activities in Poland have benefited from our relationship with PGNiG, which has provided us with exploration acreage, seismic data, expertise, and production data under our agreements. The Polish government commenced the privatization of PGNiG by selling PGNiG’s refining assets in the mid-90s and by successfully completing an initial public offering of approximately 15% of its stock. Recently, PGNiG has announced plans to privatize its service affiliates, including the geophysical and drilling companies that we regularly engage. Complete privatization or a re-nationalization of PGNiG may result in new policies, strategies, or ownership that could adversely affect our existing relationship and agreements, as well as the availability of opportunities with PGNiG in the future. We are dependent on PGNiG to accurately account for expenditures on our behalf and for which we are responsible. Many of our activities in Poland are undertaken in collaboration with PGNiG, which frequently owns a majority of the interest in the project and acts as operator under our agreements. As operator, PGNiG incurs costs for agreed activities, such as gathering seismic data, drilling and completing wells, constructing production facilities, and other costs, and we are obligated to advance or reimburse our share of such costs. We have limited rights to audit or otherwise examine the records of expenditures on our behalf that we reimburse. The limitation on such rights and our inability to undertake audits to determine compliance with our agreements may expose us to overcharges or other irregularities. Certain risks of loss arise from our need to conduct transactions in foreign currency. The amounts in our agreements relating to our activities in Poland are sometimes expressed and payable in U.S. dollars and sometimes in Polish zlotys. In the future, our financial results and cash flows in Poland may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Polish zloty and the U.S. dollar. Currencies used by us may not be convertible at satisfactory rates. In addition, the official conversion rates between United States and Polish currencies may not accurately reflect the relative value of goods and services available or required in Poland. Further, inflation may lead to the devaluation of the Polish zloty. The ongoing European sovereign debt crises and collateral financial issues may adversely affect our ability to borrow money. Under our Senior Reserve Based Lending Facility with two European banks, we have drawn $45 million in financing and currently have access to an additional $20 million. Although both lending banks in our credit facility recently successfully passed required European bank stress tests, there is no guarantee that they will maintain their required capital and other ratios, and our access to the remaining available funds may be adversely affected in view of the continuing unresolved sovereign debt conditions in Europe, the unsettled circumstances surrounding the secondary credit crisis in Europe, and the uncertain success of efforts to resolve the Euro crisis. Such factors may adversely impact the capital stability of our lenders as well as other lenders from which we might seek additional or replacement financing. 21 The Polish Ministry of the Environment has the authority to terminate immediately the mining usufruct agreements and may impose a contractual penalty in the amount of 25% of the fee due under the mining agreement if we do not comply with the terms and obligations indicated in such agreements. Pursuant to the Polish Geological and Mining Law, a mining usufruct is the right to carry out work connected with prospecting and exploring for, or extracting, oil and gas. A mining usufruct is established based on an agreement concluded with the Polish State Treasury, in that case represented by the Polish Ministry of the Environment. The Polish Ministry of the Environment has the authority, if we fail to comply with the terms and obligations indicated in the mining usufruct agreement, in particular with the obligation to pay the fee due under the agreement, to terminate immediately a mining usufruct agreement, and may impose on us a contractual penalty in the amount of 25% of the fee due under the agreement. We cannot ensure that we have complied, and will comply, with all the terms and obligations imposed on us under the mining usufruct agreements. The loss of the usufruct rights under the mining usufruct agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Currently unfolding political upheavals in Ukraine, Poland’s neighbor to the southeast, could have unpredictable consequences in Poland and its gas industry. In recent days there has been a leadership change in Ukraine, along with the possibility of political or military intervention by Russia in the Crimean region of Ukraine, which has ethnic ties with Russia. At least one gas pipeline enters Poland from Ukraine. We cannot predict how political events in Ukraine will unfold or whether or how such developments might impact Poland, its gas industry, or our activities there. We cannot assure that such developments and influences resulting from the conditions in Ukraine will not have an adverse effect on our activities in Poland. Our operations in Poland require our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We must conduct our activities in or related to Poland in compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Enforcement officials interpret the FCPA’s prohibition on improper payments to government officials to apply to officials of state-owned enterprises such as PGNiG, our principal partner in Poland. While our employees and agents are required to acknowledge and comply with these laws, we cannot assure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, reputation, and results of operations. Proposed changes to Poland’s hydrocarbon legislation will have an adverse impact on our operations if approved as they are currently defined. In late 2012, the Polish government approved guidelines for new hydrocarbon legislation, including, among other things, higher royalties on hydrocarbons produced, a new cash flow tax based on the positive cumulative cash flow of exploration and development projects, as well as changes to how usufruct fees are determined and how concessions are awarded. The Minister of Environment was directed to prepare a draft law, which was published in early 2013. Comments from the industry/general public were invited, to be taken into account or not in preparing a revised draft by the Minister. The revised draft is subject to review by various governmental committees and agencies, and then a final draft will be subject to approval by the government, before it is sent to the Parliament. As of the date of this report, the proposed legislation remains in draft form, and no vote has yet been scheduled. The new legislation is meant to increase governmental revenue from the oil and gas industry, with the stated intention for the total royalty and tax burden of an energy company to approach 40% of taxable income, which is approximately double that of the current fiscal regime. The new law, once approved by Parliament, would become effective January 1, 2015, at the earliest, but in any event not prior to the first commercial production of shale gas in the country. 22 Although the draft law has been published, we are unable to estimate the impact of the law on our financial results or operations. However, any increase in royalties or income taxes to which we may be subject would have an adverse impact. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stockholder rights plan and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on our common stock. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests that include: ● members of the board of directors are elected and retire in rotation; and ● the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of, and to issue new series of, preferred shares. Together, these provisions and our stockholder rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment to our stockholders of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common shares. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. Our common stock has closed as low as $2.56 and as high as $4.90 between January 1, 2013, and the date of this report. Some of the factors leading to this volatility include: ● the outcome of individual wells or the timing of exploration efforts in Poland and the United States; ● the potential sale by us of newly issued common stock to raise capital; ● price and volume fluctuations in the general securities markets that are unrelated to our results of operations; ● the investment community’s view of companies with assets and operations outside the United States in general and in Poland in particular; ● actions or announcements by our partners that may affect us; ● announced drilling or other exploration results by others in or near the areas of our activities; ● turmoil in the financial sector that may impact our revolving credit facility; ● prevailing world prices for oil and gas; ● changes in regulatory environments may adversely affect the trading prices for our common stock; ● the potential of our current and planned activities in Poland and the United States; and ● changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other oil and gas companies, or the oil and gas industry in general. 23 Current rules may make it difficult for us to obtain a stockholder meeting quorum required for a valid meeting to elect directors and transact other business. Current New York Stock Exchange rules prohibit brokerage firms and other institutions holding any publicly traded company stock of record in their names for the benefit of others from voting such shares for the election of directors and other nonroutine matters without specific voting instructions from beneficial owners. These New York Stock Exchange rules governing member firms are followed industry-wide. As a result, brokerage firms and other institutions may not return sufficient proxies to constitute a quorum if the beneficial owners of such shares do not provide instructions. Even if a quorum is obtained, these recently adopted provisions may reduce substantially the number of votes cast for the election of directors, which may result in the failure to elect one or more directors. Notwithstanding the failure to elect directors at the annual meeting, such directors may hold-over and continue to serve until their successors are elected at a subsequent meeting. If this were to occur, the board would include directors not recently elected by the stockholders. Our current rating by third-party corporate governance consultants advising institutional stockholders may result in recommendations that incumbent directors not be reelected or against the approval of other matters in accordance with management’s recommendations. Various corporate governance consultants advising institutional investors and others provide scores or ratings of our governance measures, nominees for election as directors, and other matters that may be submitted to the stockholders for consideration. Although the full details of such scores or ratings by consultants are not available to us, we expect that certain nominees or matters that we propose for approval from time to time may not merit a favorable score or rating or may result in a negative score or rating or recommendation that the nominee or matter be rejected. We believe that approximately 40% of our stock may be held by institutions that may be advised by such consultants. Accordingly, unfavorable scores or ratings by such consultants could adversely affect our ability to obtain reelection of incumbent directors or the approval of other matters in accordance with management’s recommendations. We have reviewed certain governance measures, such as our classified board and stockholder rights plan, that we believe contribute to lowering our scores and ratings and have determined that such governance provisions are in the best interests of our stockholders notwithstanding the adverse effect of such provisions on such scores or ratings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 