ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of material risks, including the following factors related directly and indirectly to our business activities in the United States and Poland. Risks Relating to our Business Our long-term success depends largely on our discovery and production of economic quantities of gas or oil in Poland. We anticipate that our production will increase in 2011 as previously drilled wells are placed into production and that we will generate revenues in excess of direct lease operating costs as well as anticipated general and administrative costs. However, these revenues will not be sufficient to cover all of our planned exploration and development costs. Accordingly, we will continue to rely on existing working capital, borrowings under our expanded credit facility, additional funds obtained from the sale of equity securities and other external sources, and industry partners to cover these costs. If we are unable to obtain the funds that we seek from these sources for our expanded and accelerated exploration and development plans, we may be required to reduce our capital expenditures. 12 Fluctuations in global oil and gas prices impact the price we receive for gas in Poland. The prices at which we sell gas in Poland to PGNiG are determined pursuant to published tariffs for gas sold to wholesale consumers. Such tariffs are determined, in part, by reference to the cost of Russian imported gas, which is priced based, in part, on trailing, historical oil prices. The trailing impact of lower oil prices may have a depressing effect on such tariffs, and so may reduce the price that we receive for our gas from PGNiG. Conversely, because the tariffs are determined, in part, by trailing prices, increases in oil prices may result in higher tariffs for the gas we sell in Poland. We may incur additional losses due to exchange-rate fluctuations. Continuing fluctuations in the rates at which U.S. dollars are exchanged into Polish zlotys may result in exchange-rate losses. We are subject to exchange-rate fluctuations as we transfer dollar-denominated funds from the United States to Poland for exploration and development and receive payment for the gas we sell in Poland in zlotys. As the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the zloty, our U.S. dollar-denominated revenue received in Polish zlotys declines; conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the zloty, our U.S. dollar-denominated revenue received in Polish zlotys increases. Should exchange rates in effect during early 2011 continue throughout the year, we expect the exchange rates to have a slightly positive impact on our U.S. dollar-denominated revenues in 2011 compared to 2010, but a corresponding negative impact on the U.S. dollar cost of our capital expenditures in Poland. We have limited control over our exploration and development activities in Poland. Our partner, PGNiG, holds the majority interest and is operator of our Fences project area, where our principal production and reserves are located. As a paying partner, we rely to a significant extent on the financial capabilities of PGNiG. If PGNiG were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In particular, we have prepared our exploration budget through 2011 and beyond based on the participation of, and funding to be provided by, PGNiG. Although we have rights to participate in exploration and development activities on some PGNiG-controlled acreage, we have limited rights to initiate such activities, which might slow the pace at which we might like to advance our exploration and development efforts if we had full funding. Similarly, as operator, PGNiG controls the level of production as well as other day-to-day operating details. Further, we have no direct interest in some of the underlying agreements, licenses, and grants from the Polish agencies governing the exploration, exploitation, development, or production of acreage controlled by PGNiG. Thus, our program in Poland involving PGNiG-controlled acreage would be adversely affected if PGNiG should elect not to pursue activities on such acreage, if the relationship between us and PGNiG should deteriorate or terminate, or if PGNiG or the governmental agencies should fail to fulfill the requirements of, or elect to terminate, such agreements, licenses, or grants. In our Kutno, Warsaw South, and Block 287 areas, we are dependent on the financial ability of other industry participants to pay the costs of agreed exploration activities. We may undertake this work at our own cost or seek replacement industry participants if one or more of these third parties fail to pay these costs. We cannot assure the exploration models we are using in Poland will lead to finding gas or oil in Poland. We cannot assure the exploration models we and PGNiG develop will provide a useful or effective guide for selecting exploration prospects and drilling targets. We continually review and revise or replace these exploration models as a guide to further exploration based on ongoing drilling results. These exploration models are typically based on incomplete or unconfirmed data and theories that have not been fully tested. The seismic data, other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the area do not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling that gas or oil will be present in commercial quantities. The fact that some prospects may appear to have similar geological or geophysical subsurface features or may be located near previous wells cannot assure that such prospects are in fact similar or that drilling results will be comparable. Every prospect is unique and must be evaluated individually. We cannot assure that the analogies that we draw from available data from other wells, fully explored prospects, or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects or will enable us to forecast accurately drilling results. 13 We use various methods to evaluate various categories of potential gas or oil accumulations. For purposes of management decisions and risk analysis, we use a variety of geological, engineering, and geophysical techniques to estimate probable or possible reserves and gross, unrisked resource potential. These various methods are important in making many kinds of management decisions during the exploration, development, and production process, but the quantities and values estimated through these methods are not comparable and should not be compared. We cannot assure that any gas or oil quantities or values that we estimate through alternative methods will ever be converted through additional exploration and production into reserves. Our estimates of proved and probable oil and gas reserves are subject to various risks and uncertainties and include voluntarily disclosed information regarding probable reserves. Our estimates of oil and gas reserves are based on various assumptions and estimates and are very complex and interpretative, as there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved and probable reserves, projecting future sales of production, and the timing and amount of development expenditures. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our proved and probable reserve estimates are subject to continuing revisions as additional information becomes available or assumptions change. Although they rely in part on objective information, engineering evaluations of oil and gas reservoirs are essentially subjective processes of estimating the size and recoverability of underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in any exact manner. The actual production that we obtain from our oil and gas properties may vary substantially from the factors and assumptions that have been used in completing these estimates, including: · the geological, geophysical, and engineering characteristics of the underground reservoir; · known production from other properties that we believe are analogs to our own wells; · the assumed effects of regulatory requirements and government payments; · the costs of the construction of production facilities and pipeline connections and the timing of completing those facilities; · production and other operating policies and practices of PGNiG, the operator of most of our productive wells; · the effect of certain terms that could be changed in the future, including gas and oil exploitation fees, royalty rates, and similar items; and · market prices and demand for the oil and gas we produce. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission’s revisions to the rules for estimating oil and gas reserves that we adopted effective December 31, 2009, our reserve estimates are based on 12-month average prices, rather than year-end prices. The application of these rules resulted in the use of lower prices for estimating reserves as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, than under the previous rules. Furthermore, as permitted by the revised rules, our estimates of probable reserves as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, are calculated using probabilistic, as distinguished from deterministic, methods used in estimating proved reserves. The larger quantity of proved plus probable reserves, as compared to proved reserves only, is attributable largely to using a less certain interpretation of reservoir size and a higher recovery factor in estimating probable reserves that reduces the likelihood of the actual recovery of probable reserves. For example, probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. Such uncertainties preclude the reserves at issue from being classified as proved. 14 Because of the foregoing, the estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular property, the classifications of those reserves based on risk or probability of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from such properties prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Therefore, reserve estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustments, and actual production, revenue, and related expenditures are likely to vary, in some cases materially, from estimates. We cannot accurately predict the size of exploration targets or foresee all related risks. Notwithstanding the accumulation and study of 2-D and 3-D seismic data, drilling logs, production information from established fields, and other engineering, geological, and geophysical data, we cannot predict accurately the gas or oil potential of individual prospects and drilling targets or the related risks. We sometimes estimate the gross potential or possible reserves of gas or oil in a particular area as part of our evaluation of the exploration potential and related risks. Our estimates are only rough, preliminary geological forecasts of the volume and characteristics of possible reservoirs and the calculated potential gas or oil that could be contained if present and are unqualified by any risk evaluation. Such forecasts are not an assurance that our exploration will be successful or that we will be able to establish reserves equal to such forecasts. In some cases, our estimates of possible reserves or oil and gas potential may be based on a review of data from other exploration or producing fields in the area that ultimately may be found not to be analogous to our exploration prospects. We may require several test wells and long-term analysis of test data and history of production to determine the gas or oil potential of individual prospects. We have had some exploration failures in Poland. Since 1995 and through early 2011, we have participated in drilling 30 exploratory wells in Poland, including nine commercial discoveries (Wilga 2, Kleka 11, Zaniemysl-3, Sroda-4, Winna Gora-1, Roszkow-1, Kromolice-1, Kromolice-2, and Lisewo-1), and 21 noncommercial wells. Of our nine commercial successes in Poland, we were producing gas at our Roszkow-1, Zaniemysl-3, and Sroda-4 wells as of December 31, 2010. Our Wilga 2 and Kleka 11 wells have been fully exploited and no longer produce. Production from the four other commercial discoveries will not commence until requisite permits are obtained and production facilities are constructed. We may not achieve the results anticipated in placing our current or future discoveries into production. We may encounter delays in commencing the production and sale of gas in Poland, including our recent gas discoveries and other possible future discoveries. We may face delays in obtaining rights-of-way to connect to the PGNiG pipeline system, construction permits, and materials and contractors; signing gas or oil purchase/sales contracts; receiving commitments for required capital expenditures by PGNiG; and other factors. Such delays could correspondingly postpone the commencement of cash flow and may require us to obtain additional short-term financing pending commencement of production. Further, we may design and construct surface and pipeline facilities to accommodate anticipated production from additional drilling. We cannot assure that additional drilling will establish additional reserves or production that will provide an economic return for expenditures for facilities. We may have to change our anticipated expenditures if costs of placing a particular discovery into production are higher, if the project is smaller, or if the commencement of production takes longer than expected. We have a history of operating losses and may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations. From our inception in January 1989 through December 31, 2010, we have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $161 million. Our exploration and production activities may continue to result in net losses through 2011 and possibly beyond, depending on whether our activities in Poland and the United States are successful and result in sufficient revenues to cover related operating expenses. 15 Until sufficient cash flow from operations can be obtained, we expect we will need additional capital to fully fund our ongoing planned exploration, appraisal, development, and property acquisition programs in Poland. We may seek required funds from the issuance of additional debt, equity or hybrid securities, project financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Obtaining additional financing may dilute the interest of our existing stockholders or our interest in the specific project being financed. We cannot assure that additional funds could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms favorable to us. In addition to planned activities in Poland, we may require additional funds for general corporate purposes. We may not fulfill our work commitments on the exploration rights we hold in Poland. We are subject to certain work commitments respecting various exploration concessions that must be satisfied in order to maintain our interest in those concessions. These work commitments must be satisfied in order to maintain our interest in those concessions. We cannot assure that we will be granted any requested changes to usufruct and concession agreements that either modify the obligations to reduce our commitments or extend the terms of those agreements. Our exploration budget and related activities are not focused specifically or primarily on meeting these work commitments. We may not be able to retain any concession rights on areas for which we do not timely complete required work commitments. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse impact on our operations. We rely on our officers, key employees, and consultants and their expertise, particularly David N. Pierce, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas B. Lovejoy, Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President; Andrew W. Pierce, Vice President-Operations; Jerzy B. Maciolek, Vice President-Exploration; Zbigniew Tatys, Poland Country Manager; and Richard Hardman, Director and Chairman of our Technical and Advisory Panel. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may materially and adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our key executives, we may not be able to retain such key executives. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our employees. Substantially all of the oil and gas currently produced in Poland is sold to PGNiG or its affiliates. We currently sell substantially all of the oil and gas we produce in Poland to PGNiG or one of its affiliates. If PGNiG were to fail to perform its obligations under contracts with us, it would most likely have a material adverse effect on us. The market for the sale of gas in Poland is open to competition, but there are not yet many market participants. While our contracts provide us with the ability to market gas to other purchasers, including those outside of Poland, we do not expect to have the opportunity to diversify our gas markets in the foreseeable future. Oil and gas price volatility could adversely affect our operations and our ability to obtain financing. Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors: · the market and price structure in local markets; · changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas; · market uncertainty; · the impact of potential climate change on oil and gas demand and prices; · political conditions in international oil and gas producing regions; 16 · the extent of production and importation of oil and gas into existing or potential markets; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions affecting production, transportation, and consumption; · the competitive position of gas or oil as a source of energy, as compared with coal, nuclear energy, hydroelectric power, and other energy sources; · the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities; · the refining and processing capacity of prospective gas or oil purchasers; · the effect of governmental regulation on the production, transportation, and sale of oil and gas; and · other factors beyond our control. We have not entered into any agreements to protect us from price fluctuations and may or may not do so in the future. Our industry is subject to numerous operating risks. Insurance may not be adequate to protect us against all these risks. Our oil and gas drilling and production operations are subject to hazards incidental to the industry. These hazards include blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, releases of toxic gas, and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. To lessen the effects of these hazards, we maintain insurance of various types to cover our domestic and international operations. We cannot assure that the insurance policies carried by us or by PGNiG, as operator of the Fences area, can continue to be obtained on reasonable terms. While we do carry limited third-party liability and all-risk insurance in Poland, we do not plan to purchase well control insurance on wells we drill in the Fences project area and may elect not to purchase such insurance on wells drilled in other areas in Poland as well. The current level of insurance does not cover all of the risks involved in oil and gas exploration, drilling, and production. Where additional insurance coverage does exist, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full amount of such liabilities. We may not be insured against all losses or liabilities that may arise from all hazards because such insurance is unavailable at economic rates, because of limitations on existing insurance coverage, or other factors. For example, we do not maintain insurance against risks related to violations of environmental laws. We would be adversely affected by a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance. Further, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Our operations are subject to various litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. From time to time we are a defendant in various litigation matters. The nature of our operations exposes us to further possible litigation claims in the future. There is risk that any matter in litigation could be adversely decided against us regardless of our belief, opinion, and position, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation is highly costly and the costs associated with defending litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We face competition from larger oil and gas companies, which could result in adverse effects on our business. The exploration and production business is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs, and facilities. Our competitors in Poland and the United States include numerous major oil and gas exploration and production companies. 17 The effects of global climate change could adversely impact the market demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. The value of our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities is and will continue to be a function of the market demand for oil and gas products. If global climate change results in rising average global temperatures, the market demand for oil and gas products used in residential and commercial heating fuels may decrease. This could result in a decrease in demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. Concerns regarding global climate change could spur legislation or regulation, globalized through treaties or otherwise, that could diminish global demand for oil and gas products and negatively impact our business. Our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities in Poland are subject to Poland’s laws and regulations, some of which are designed to meet the requirements of the European Union. Future legislation and regulation could be a part of globalized efforts similar to the Kyoto Protocol, regional systems such as the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, or other campaigns in response to concerns regarding global climate change. Such laws or regulations could result in taxes or direct limitations on the production of fossil fuels that could diminish global market demand for oil and gas products or curtail or limit our activities in Poland and correspondingly have a negative impact on our business. We may incur significant costs related to environmental matters. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties in the United States, we are subject to various federal, tribal, state, local, and foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies could require us to make significant capital expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact our cash flows and our financial condition. Our United States operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations. Our United States operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and by federal, state, tribal, and local laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties, and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering rate controls, and environmental protection laws and regulations. New political developments, laws, and regulations may adversely impact our results on operations. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to explore and produce from the Bakken shale in our Montana properties. We may test the oil potential of the Bakken, Three Forks, and related shale formations underlying our Cut Bank field in Montana with multistage hydraulic fracturing of horizontal wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a practice used to enhance oil and natural gas production. The process involves the injection of fluids, typically water, sand, and chemical additives, under pressure into a well in order to create fractures in the surrounding rock and stimulate production from the reservoir to the wellbore. Hydraulic fracturing may prove to be the primary production method used to economically produce natural gas and oil from the Bakken/Three Forks formations. The process of hydraulic fracturing has typically been regulated by state oil and natural gas regulators but has not been subject to federal oversight or regulation. However, the United States Congress is currently considering bills that would eliminate an existing exemption under the Safe Drinking Water Act and subject hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation. Moreover, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has begun a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting a study of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. Additionally, some states have adopted, and Montana might consider adopting, conditions, restrictions, and regulations that could prohibit hydraulic fracturing under certain circumstances. 18 If new federal or Montana state laws or regulations are adopted that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing, such restrictions could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing. In addition, if federal or Montana state authorities regulate hydraulic fracturing, exploration and production activities that involve hydraulic fracturing could be subject to new regulatory regimes and additional permitting requirements that involve permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources from shale formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could limit the potential upside of any activities we undertake with respect to shale plays in Montana. Risks Relating to Conducting Business in Poland A substantial amount of our revenues are attributable to our operations in Poland. Any disruption in production, development, or our ability to produce and sell oil in Poland would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. Polish laws, regulations, and policies may be changed in ways that could adversely impact our business. Our oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities in Poland are and will continue to be subject to ongoing uncertainties and risks, including: · possible changes in government personnel, the development of new administrative policies, and practices and political conditions in Poland that may affect the administration of agreements with governmental agencies or enterprises; · possible changes to the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to our partners and us or the oil and gas industry in Poland in general; · uncertainties as to whether the laws and regulations will be applicable in any particular circumstance; · uncertainties as to whether we will be able to enforce our rights in Poland; · uncertainty as to whether we will be able to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Polish authorities, PGNiG’s and our compliance with governmental requirements respecting exploration expenditures, results of exploration, environmental protection matters, and other factors; · the inability to recover previous payments to the Polish government made under the exploration rights or any other costs incurred respecting those rights if we were to lose or cancel our exploration and exploitation rights at any time; · political instability and possible changes in government; · export and transportation tariffs; · local and national tax requirements; · expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises and other risks arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our acreage in Poland; and · possible significant delays in obtaining opinions of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements in connection with a grant of permits to conduct exploration and production activities. Our operations are concentrated in Poland such that any impediment to these operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 Poland has a developing regulatory regime, regulatory policies, and interpretations. Poland has a regulatory regime governing exploration and development, production, marketing, transportation, and storage of oil and gas. These provisions were promulgated during the past two decades and are relatively untested. Therefore, there is little or no administrative or enforcement history or established practice that can aid us in evaluating how the regulatory regime will affect our operations. It is possible those governmental policies will change or that new laws and regulations, administrative practices or policies, or interpretations of existing laws and regulations will materially and adversely affect our activities in Poland. For example, many of Poland’s laws, policies, and procedures were changed to conform to the requirements that had to be met before Poland was admitted as a full member of the European Union. Our oil and gas operations are subject to changing environmental laws and regulations that could have a negative impact on our operations. Operations on our project areas are subject to environmental laws and regulations in Poland that provide for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases, or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas exploration and development. Additionally, if significant quantities of gas are produced with oil, regulations prohibiting the flaring of gas may inhibit oil production. In such circumstances, the absence of a gas-gathering and delivering system may restrict production or may require significant expenditures to develop such a system prior to producing oil and gas. We are required to prepare and obtain approval of environmental impact assessments by governmental authorities in Poland prior to commencing gas or oil production, transportation, and processing functions. We are also subject to the requirements of Natura 2000, which is an ecological network in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe. Neither our partners nor we can assure that we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations in drilling wells, acquiring seismic data, or completing other activities in Poland to date. The Polish government may adopt more restrictive regulations or administrative policies or practices. The cost of compliance with current regulations or any changes in environmental regulations could require significant expenditures. Further, breaches of such regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, any of which may be material. These environmental costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. Privatization/Nationalization of PGNiG could affect our relationship and future opportunities in Poland. Our activities in Poland have benefited from our relationship with PGNiG, which has provided us with exploration acreage, seismic data, and production data under our agreements. The Polish government commenced the privatization of PGNiG by selling PGNiG’s refining assets in the mid-90s and by successfully completing an initial public offering of approximately 15% of its stock. Complete privatization or a re-nationalization of PGNiG may result in new policies, strategies, or ownership that could adversely affect our existing relationship and agreements, as well as the availability of opportunities with PGNiG in the future. Certain risks of loss arise from our need to conduct transactions in foreign currency. The amounts in our agreements relating to our activities in Poland are sometimes expressed and payable in U.S. dollars and sometimes in Polish zlotys. In the future, our financial results and cash flows in Poland may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Polish zloty and the U.S. dollar. Currencies used by us may not be convertible at satisfactory rates. In addition, the official conversion rates between United States and Polish currencies may not accurately reflect the relative value of goods and services available or required in Poland. Further, inflation may lead to the devaluation of the Polish zloty. 20 The interests that we hold in concessions and usufructs owned in the name of PGNiG may be jeopardized or lost, and we may not be able to obtain new concessions, without compensation to us, in the event of PGNiG’s bankruptcy, persistent breaches of laws such as environmental requirements, winding up, or other circumstances. The Poland Ministry of the Environment, which administers the Geologic and Mining Law, has the authority to terminate concessions and usufructs in the name of PGNiG and in which we have a fractional undivided interest if PGNiG is declared bankrupt, persistently violates environmental regulations or other laws, is wound up, rescinds the concession, or otherwise breaches material usufruct or concession terms. There can be no assurance that PGNiG’s current 72.5% government ownership will continue or that the Poland government will in any circumstance intervene to prevent PGNiG’s insolvency or bankruptcy. We may not be able to implement effective measures to preserve and protect our property interests by curing any concession or usufruct default by PGNiG, assuring fair compensation in the event of any such loss, or implementing new legal strategies that would insulate our interests from loss due to PGNiG’s actions or condition. The Polish Ministry of the Environment has the authority to terminate the mining usufruct agreements with immediate effect and may impose a contractual penalty in the amount of 25% of the fee due under the mining agreement if we do not comply with the terms and obligations indicated in such agreements. Pursuant to the Polish Geological and Mining Law, a mining usufruct is the right to carry out work connected with the prospecting and exploration for or the extraction of gas. A mining usufruct is established based on an agreement concluded with the Polish State Treasury, in that case represented by the Polish Ministry of the Environment. The Polish Ministry of the Environment has the authority to terminate a mining usufruct agreement with immediate effect and may impose on us a contractual penalty in the amount of 25% of the fee due under the mining usufruct agreement if we fail to comply with the terms and obligations indicated in such agreement, in particular with the obligation to pay the fee due under the agreement. We cannot ensure that we have complied and will comply in the future with all the terms and obligations imposed on us under the mining usufruct agreements. The loss of the usufruct rights under the mining usufruct agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations in Poland require our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We must conduct our activities in or related to Poland in compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Enforcement officials interpret the FCPA’s prohibition on improper payments to government officials to apply to officials of state-owned enterprises such as PGNiG, our principal partner in Poland. While our employees and agents are required to acknowledge and comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, reputation, and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stockholder rights plan and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on our common stock. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests that include: · members of the board of directors are elected and retire in rotation; and 21 · the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of, and to issue new series of, preferred shares. Together, these provisions and our stockholder rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment to our stockholders of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common shares. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. Our common stock has traded as low as $2.85 and as high as $12.20 during intraday trading between January 1, 2010, and the date of this report. Some of the factors leading to this volatility include: · the outcome of individual wells or the timing of exploration efforts in Poland; · the potential sale by us of newly issued common stock to raise capital; · price and volume fluctuations in the general securities markets that are unrelated to our results of operations; · the investment community’s view of companies with assets and operations outside the United States in general and in Poland in particular; · actions or announcements by PGNiG that may affect us; · announced drilling or other exploration results by others in or near the areas of our activities; · turmoil in the financial sector that may impact our revolving credit facility; · prevailing world prices for oil and gas; · the potential of our current and planned activities in Poland; and · changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other oil and gas companies, or the oil and gas industry in general. Exploration failures or changes in the regulatory environment in Poland may adversely affect the trading prices for our common stock. Current rules may make it difficult for us to obtain a stockholder meeting quorum required for a valid meeting to elect directors and transact other business. Current New York Stock Exchange rules prohibit brokerage firms and other institutions holding stock of record in their name for the benefit of others from voting such shares for the election of directors and other nonroutine matters without specific voting instructions from beneficial owners. As a result, brokerage firms and other institutions may not return sufficient proxies to constitute a quorum if the beneficial owners of such shares do not provide instructions. Even if a quorum is obtained, these recently adopted provisions may reduce substantially the number of votes cast for the election of directors, which may result in the failure to elect one or more directors. Notwithstanding the failure to elect directors at the annual meeting, such directors may hold-over and continue to serve until their successors are elected at a subsequent meeting. If this were to occur, the board would include directors not recently elected by the stockholders. 22 Our current rating by third-party corporate governance consultants advising institutional stockholders may result in recommendations that incumbent directors not be reelected. Various corporate governance consultants advising institutional investors and others provide scores or ratings of our governance measures, nominees for election as directors, and other matters that may be submitted to the stockholders for consideration. Although the full details of such scores or ratings by consultants are not available to us, we expect that certain nominees or matters that we propose for approval from time to time may not merit a favorable score or rating or may result in a negative score or rating or recommendation that the nominee or matter be rejected. We believe that approximately 25% of our stock may be held by institutions that may be advised by such consultants. Accordingly, unfavorable scores or ratings by such consultants could adversely affect our ability to obtain reelection of incumbent directors or the approval of other matters in accordance with management’s recommendations. We have reviewed certain governance measures, such as our classified board and stockholder rights plan, that we believe contribute to our low scores and ratings and have determined that such governance provisions are in the best interests of our stockholders notwithstanding the adverse effect of such provisions on such scores or ratings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 