Risk Factors Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider, along with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following: • Our future revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate and may fail to meet expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to fluctuations resulting from general economic conditions and a variety of risks specific to us or characteristic of the semiconductor industry, including booking and shipment uncertainties, supply problems, and price erosion. These and other factors make it difficult for us to accurately project quarterly revenues and operating results, which may fail to meet our expectations. Any failure to meet expectations could cause our stock price to decline significantly. • A variety of booking and shipping uncertainties may cause us to fall short of our quarterly revenue expectations. When we fall short of our quarterly revenue expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely affected because most of our expenses are fixed and therefore do not vary with revenues. • We derive a large percentage of our quarterly revenues from bookings received during the quarter, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. Our backlog (which generally may be cancelled or deferred by customers on short notice without significant penalty) at the beginning of a quarter typically accounts for about half of our revenues during the quarter. This means that we generate about half of our quarterly revenues from orders received during the quarter and “turned” for shipment within the quarter, and that any shortfall in “turns” orders will have an immediate and adverse impact on quarterly revenues. In addition, we sometimes book a disproportionately large percentage of turns orders during the final weeks of the quarter. There are many factors that can cause a shortfall in turns orders, including declines in general economic conditions or the businesses of our customers, excess inventory in the channel, or conversion of our products to hard-wired ASICs or other competing products for price or other reasons. Any failure or delay in receiving expected turns orders would have an immediate and adverse impact on quarterly revenues. • We derive a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from shipments made in the final weeks of the quarter, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We have often shipped a disproportionately large percentage of our quarterly revenues in the final weeks of the quarter, which makes it difficult to accurately project quarterly revenues. Any failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would have an immediate and adverse impact on quarterly revenues. • Our military and aerospace shipments tend to be large and are subject to complex scheduling uncertainties, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. Orders from the military and aerospace customers tend to be large and irregular, which contributes to fluctuations in our net revenues and gross margins. These sales are also subject to more extensive governmental regulations, including greater import and export restrictions. Historically, it has been difficult to predict if and when export licenses will be granted, if required. In addition, products for military and aerospace applications require processing and testing that is more lengthy and stringent than for commercial applications, which increases the complexity of scheduling and forecasting as well as the risk of failure. It is often impossible to determine before the end of processing and testing whether products intended for military or aerospace applications will fail and, if they do fail, it is generally not possible for replacements to be processed and tested in time for shipment during the same quarter. Any failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would have an immediate and adverse impact on quarterly revenues. 22 Table of Contents • We derive a majority of our quarterly revenues from products resold by our distributors, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We typically generate more than half of our quarterly revenues from sales made through distributors. Since we generally do not recognize revenue on the sale of a product to a distributor until the distributor resells the product, our quarterly revenues are dependent on, and subject to fluctuations in, shipments by our distributors. We are also highly dependent on the timeliness and accuracy of resale reports from our distributors. Late or inaccurate resale reports, particularly in the last month of the quarter, contribute to our difficulty in predicting and reporting our quarterly revenues and results of operations. • An unanticipated shortage of products available for sale may cause us to fall short of expected quarterly revenues and operating results. In a typical semiconductor manufacturing process, silicon wafers produced by a foundry are sorted and cut into individual die, which are then assembled into individual packages and tested. The manufacture, assembly, and testing of semiconductor products is highly complex and subject to a wide variety of risks, including defects in masks, impurities in the materials used, contaminants in the environment, and performance failures by personnel and equipment. Semiconductor products intended for military and aerospace applications and new products, such as our Flash-based ProASIC 3/E and antifuse-based Axcelerator FPGA families, are often more complex and/or more difficult to produce, increasing the risk of manufacturing-related defects. In addition, we may not discover defects or other errors in new products until after we have commenced volume production. Our failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter due to unexpected supply constraints would have an immediate and adverse impact on quarterly revenues. • Unanticipated increases, or the failure to achieve anticipated reductions, in the cost of our products may cause us to fall short of expected quarterly operating results. As is also common in the semiconductor industry, our independent wafer suppliers from time to time experience lower than anticipated yields of usable die. Wafer yields can decline without warning and may take substantial time to analyze and correct, particularly for a company like us that does not operate our own manufacturing facility, but instead utilizes independent facilities, all of which are offshore. Yield problems are most common on new processes or at new foundries, particularly when new technologies are involved. Our FPGAs are also manufactured using customized processing steps, which may increase the incidence of production yield problems as well as the amount of time needed to achieve satisfactory, sustainable wafer yields on new processes and new products. Lower than expected yields of usable die could reduce our gross margin, which would adversely affect our quarterly operating results. In addition, in order to win designs, we generally must price new products on the assumption that manufacturing cost reductions will be achieved, which often do not occur as soon as expected. The failure to achieve expected manufacturing or other cost reductions during a quarter could reduce our gross margin, which would adversely affect our quarterly operating results. • Unanticipated reductions in the average selling prices of our products may cause us to fall short of expected quarterly revenues and operating results. The semiconductor industry is characterized by intense price competition. The average selling price of a product typically declines significantly between introduction and maturity. We sometimes are required by competitive pressures to reduce the prices of our new products more quickly than cost reductions can be achieved. We also sometimes approve price reductions on specific sales for strategic or other reasons. Declines in the average selling prices of our products will reduce quarterly revenues unless offset by greater unit sales or a shift in the mix of products sold toward higher-priced products. Declines in the average selling prices of our products will also reduce quarterly gross margin unless offset by reductions in manufacturing costs or by a shift in the mix of products sold toward higher-margin products. 23 Table of Contents • In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern income taxes, intangible assets and goodwill, inventories, investments in other companies, legal matters, and revenues. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. In addition, if these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. • Our gross margin may decline as we increasingly compete with hard-wired ASICs and serve the value-based market. The price we can charge for our products is constrained principally by our competition. While it has always been intense, we believe that price competition for new designs is increasing. This may be due in part to the transition toward high-level design methodologies. Designers can now wait until later in the design process before selecting a PLD or hard-wired ASIC and it is easier to convert between competing PLDs or between PLDs and hard-wired ASICs. The increased price competition may also be due in part to the increasing penetration of PLDs into price-sensitive markets previously dominated by hard-wired ASICs. We have strategically targeted many of our products at the value-based marked, which is defined primarily by low prices. If our strategy is successful, low-price products will constitute increasingly greater percentages of our net revenues, which may make it more difficult to maintain our gross margin at our historic levels. Any long-term decline in our gross margin would have an adverse effect on our operating results. • We may not win sufficient designs, or the designs we win may not generate sufficient revenues, for us to maintain or expand our business. In order for us to sell an FPGA to a customer, the customer must incorporate our FPGA into the customer’s product in the design phase. We devote substantial resources, which we may not recover through product sales, to persuade potential customers to incorporate our FPGAs into new or updated products and to support their design efforts (including, among other things, providing design and development software). These efforts usually precede by many months (and often a year or more) the generation of FPGA sales, if any. The value of any design win, moreover, depends in large part upon the ultimate success of our customer’s product in its market. Our failure to win sufficient designs, or the failure of the designs we win to generate sufficient revenues, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our products are complex and may contain errors, manufacturing defects, design defects, or otherwise fail to comply with our specifications, any of which could lead to product liability, an increase in our costs, and/or a reduction in our revenues. Our products are complex and may contain errors, manufacturing defects, design defects, or otherwise fail to comply with our specifications, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our new products are being designed in ever more complex processes, which add cost, complexity, and elements of experimentation to the development, particularly in the areas of mixed-voltage and mixed-signal design. We rely primarily on our in-house personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any errors prior to delivery of products to our customers. During 2003, several U.S. government contractors reported a small percentage of functional failures in our RTSX-S and SX-A antifuse devices manufactured on a 0.25 micron antifuse process at the original manufacturer of those FPGAs. On February 13, 2004, The Aerospace Corporation (Aerospace) proposed a 24 Table of Contents series of experiments to test various hypotheses on the root cause of the failures and to generate reliability data that could be used by industry participants in deciding whether or not to launch with RTSX-S FPGAs that were already integrated. On May 19, 2004, we released a new programming algorithm for our 0.25-micron antifuse devices from the original manufacturer. On June 21, 2004, we announced the availability of RTSX-S devices from UMC. On February 16, 2005, Aerospace summarized the results of its experiments, estimating a failure rate ranging from 2.3% to 2.8% for RTSX-S devices from the original manufacturer programmed with the original algorithm, and a failure rate ranging from 1.0% to 1.9% for RTSX-S devices from the original manufacturer programmed with the new algorithm. Aerospace also indicated that the results from our testing of RTSX-S devices from UMC were very promising, and that three test programs for the UMC devices were in progress: one by NASA, one by Aerospace, and one by us. Based on the experiments and analysis being conducted, Aerospace and Actel each recommended during 2004 that customers switch to UMC devices if their schedules permitted, and we offered to accept RTSX-S parts from the original manufacturer in exchange for UMC parts. By the fourth quarter of 2004, most customers had decided to switch to UMC devices, and we determined that the demand for parts from the original manufacturer no longer supported our inventory levels. As a result, we took $3.2 million in charges for inventory and related equipment. While testing of the UMC parts is continuing, the 0.25-micron process at UMC used to manufacture our RTSX-S and SX-A devices appears to create antifuses that are less vulnerable to the failure mechanisms identified to date. We are in the process of offering certain customers with high-reliability commercial applications the opportunity to exchange SX-A parts from the original manufacturer for UMC parts. On January 24, 2005, we released a critical software update for our flash-based ProASIC and ProASIC PLUS families of devices. We believe that ProASIC and ProASIC PLUS devices programmed with the updated software should achieve a minimum performance retention period of 20 years after programming. Any ProASIC and ProASIC PLUS device that is not programmed (or reprogrammed) with the updated software could have a shorter performance retention period. This means that the performance of the device might degrade below specification and cause a functional failure in less than 20 years. The actual performance retention period of any particular ProASIC or ProASIC PLUS device programmed with an older version of the software is design specific. For most designs, the performance retention period is greater than 20 years. We are currently working with customers on a case-by-case basis to assess the particular performance retention periods of their ProASIC and ProASIC PLUS devices when it is not practicable for them to reprogram their devices with the updated software. • Any error or defect in our products could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, and/or reputation. If problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers, in part because our products are manufactured by third parties. These problems also could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any error or defect could require product replacement or recall or could obligate us to accept product returns. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business in both the short and long term. • Any product liability claim could pose a significant risk to our financial condition. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our products. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could cause failure in our customer’s end-product, so we could face claims for damages that are much higher than the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. In addition, product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive, and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. There can be no assurance that any insurance we carry would sufficiently protect us from any such claims. 25 Table of Contents • We may be unsuccessful in defining, developing, or selling competitive new or improved products at acceptable margins. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence, and price erosion, making the timely introduction of new or improved products critical to our success. Our failure to design, develop, and sell new or improved products that satisfy customer needs, compete effectively, and generate acceptable margins may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While most of our product development programs have achieved a level of success, some have not. For example: • We announced our intention to develop SRAM-based FPGA products in 1996 and abandoned the development in 1999 principally because the product would no longer have been competitive. • We introduced our VariCore embeddable reprogrammable gate array (EPGA) logic core based on SRAM technology in 2001. Revenues from VariCore EPGAs did not materialize and the development of a more advanced VariCore EPGA was cancelled. In this case, a market that we believed would develop did not emerge. • In 2001, we also launched our BridgeFPGA initiative to address the I/O problems created within the high-speed communications market by the proliferation of interface standards. The adoption of these interface standards created the need for designers to implement bridging functions to connect incompatible interface standards. We introduced Axcelerator, a high-speed antifuse FPGA with dedicated high-speed I/O circuits that can support multiple interface standards, in 2002. However, the development of subsequent BridgeFPGA products, which were expected to include embedded high-speed interface protocol controllers, was postponed in 2002. This was due principally to the prolonged downturn in the high-speed communications market. The development was cancelled in 2003 principally because the subsequent BridgeFPGA products would no longer have been competitive. Our experience generally suggests that the risk is greater when we attempt to develop products based in whole or in part on technologies with which we have limited experience. • Numerous factors can cause the development or introduction of new products to fail or be delayed. To develop and introduce a product, we must successfully accomplish all of the following: • anticipate future customer demand and the technology that will be available to meet the demand; • define the product and its architecture, including the technology, silicon, programmer, IP, software, and packaging specifications; • obtain access to advanced manufacturing process technologies; • design and verify the silicon; • develop and release evaluation software; • lay out the architecture and implement programming; • tape out the product; • generate a mask of the product and evaluate the software; • manufacture the product at the foundry; • verify the product; and • qualify the process, characterize the product, and release production software. Each of these steps is difficult and subject to failure or delay. In addition, the failure or delay of any step can cause the failure or delay of the entire development and introduction. No assurance can be given that our development and introduction schedules for new products or the supporting software or hardware will be met, that new products will gain market acceptance, or that we will respond effectively to new 26 Table of Contents technological changes or new product announcements by others. Any failure to successfully define, develop, market, manufacture, assemble, test, or program competitive new products could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • New products are subject to greater operational risks. Our future success is highly dependent upon the timely development and introduction of competitive new products at acceptable margins. However, there are greater operational risks associated with new products. The inability of our wafer suppliers to produce advanced products; delays in commencing or maintaining volume shipments of new products; the discovery of product, process, software, or programming defects or failures; and any related product returns could each have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. • New products are subject to greater technology risks. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have experienced from time to time in the past, and expect to experience in the future, difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. The fabrication of antifuse and Flash wafers is a complex process that requires a high degree of technical skill, state-of-the-art equipment, and effective cooperation between us and the foundry to produce acceptable yields. Minute impurities, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, and other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be non-functional. Yield problems increase the cost of as well as time it takes us to bring our new products to market, which can create inventory shortages and dissatisfied customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain adequate yields or deliveries of new products could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • New products generally have lower gross margins. Our gross margin is the difference between the amount it costs us to make our products and the revenues we receive from the sale of our products. One of the most important variables affecting the cost of our products is manufacturing yields. With our customized antifuse and Flash manufacturing process requirements, we almost invariably experience difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. Until satisfactory yields are achieved, gross margins on new products are generally lower than on mature products. Depending upon the rate at which sales of new products ramp and the extent to which they displace mature products, the lower gross margins typically associated with new products could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. • We face intense competition and have some competitive disadvantages that we may not be able to overcome. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include suppliers of hard-wired ASICs, CPLDs, and FPGAs. Our direct competitors are Xilinx, a supplier of CPLDs and SRAM-based FPGAs; Altera, a supplier of CPLDs and SRAM-based FPGAs; Lattice, a supplier of CPLDs and SRAM-based FPGAs; and QuickLogic, a supplier of antifuse-based FPGAs. We also face competition from companies that specialize in converting our products into hard-wired ASICs. In addition, we may face competition from suppliers of logic products based on new or emerging technologies. While we seek to monitor developments in existing and emerging technologies, our technologies may not remain competitive. • Most of our current and potential competitors are larger and have more resources. We are much smaller than Xilinx and Altera, and additional competition is possible from major domestic and international semiconductor suppliers. All such companies are larger and have broader product lines, more extensive customer bases, and substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including the capability to manufacture their own wafers. We may not be able to overcome these competitive disadvantages. 27 Table of Contents • Our antifuse technology is not reprogrammable, which is a competitive disadvantage in most cases. All existing FPGAs not based on antifuse technology and certain CPLDs are reprogrammable. The one-time programmability of our antifuse FPGAs is necessary or desirable in some applications, but logic designers generally prefer to prototype with a reprogrammable logic device. This is because the designer can reuse the device if an error is made. The visibility associated with discarding a one-time programmable device often causes designers to select a reprogrammable device even when an alternative one-time programmable device offers significant advantages. This bias in favor of designing with reprogrammable logic devices appears to increase as the size of the design increases. Although we now offer reprogrammable Flash devices, we may not be able to overcome this competitive disadvantage. • Our Flash and antifuse technologies are not manufactured on standard processes, which is a competitive disadvantage. Our antifuse-based FPGAs and (to a lesser extent) Flash-based ProASIC FPGAs are manufactured using customized steps that are added to otherwise standard manufacturing processes of independent wafer suppliers. There is considerably less operating history for the customized process steps than for the foundries’ standard manufacturing processes. Our dependence on customized processing steps means that, in contrast with competitors using standard manufacturing processes, we generally have more difficulty establishing relationships with independent wafer manufacturers; take longer to qualify a new wafer manufacturer; take longer to achieve satisfactory, sustainable wafer yields on new processes; may experience a higher incidence of production yield problems; must pay more for wafers; and will not obtain early access to the most advanced processes. For example, we expect that our next generation Flash product families will be manufactured on a 90-nanometer process and have found it challenging to identify and procure fabrication process arrangements for our technology development activities. Any of these factors could be a material disadvantage against competitors using standard manufacturing processes. As a result of these factors, our products typically have been fabricated using processes at least one generation behind the processes used by competing products. As a consequence, we generally have not fully realized the benefits of our technologies. Although we are attempting to accelerate the rate at which our products are reduced to finer process geometries and obtain earlier access to advanced processes, we may not be able to overcome this competitive disadvantage. • Our business and operations may be disrupted by events that are beyond our control or the control of our business partners. Our performance is subject to events or conditions beyond our control, and the performance of each of our foundries, suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, agents, and customers is subject to events or conditions beyond their control. These events or conditions include labor disputes, acts of public enemies or terrorists, war or other military conflicts, blockades, insurrections, riots, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, storms, floods, washouts, arrests, civil disturbances, restraints by or actions of governmental bodies acting in a sovereign capacity (including export or security restrictions on information, material, personnel, equipment, or otherwise), breakdowns of plant or machinery, and inability to obtain transport or supplies. This type of disruption could impair our ability to ship products in a timely manner, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our corporate offices are located in California, which was subject to power outages and shortages during 2001 and 2002. More extensive power shortages in the state could disrupt our operations and interrupt our research and development activities. Our foundry partners in Japan and Taiwan and our operations in California are located in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. In addition, many of the countries outside of the United States in which our foundry partners and assembly and other subcontractors are located have unpredictable and potentially volatile economic, social, or political conditions, including the risks of conflict between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China or between North Korea and South Korea. In addition, an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) occurred in Hong Kong, Singapore, and China in 2003. The occurrence of these or similar events or circumstances could disrupt our 28 Table of Contents operations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • We have only limited insurance coverage. We do have insurance coverage for certain types of losses, and our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset the losses resulting from covered incidents. • Our business depends on numerous independent third parties whose interests may diverge from our interests. We rely heavily on, but generally have little control over, our independent foundries, suppliers, subcontractors, and distributors. • Our independent wafer manufacturers may be unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs in a timely manner, which could harm our business. We do not manufacture any of the semiconductor wafers used in the production of our FPGAs. Our wafers are currently manufactured by Chartered in Singapore, Infineon in Germany, Matsushita in Japan, UMC in Taiwan, and Winbond in Taiwan. Our reliance on independent wafer manufacturers to fabricate our wafers involves significant risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation, delivery schedules, the resolution of technical difficulties limiting production or reducing yields, and the development of new processes. Although we have supply agreements with some of our wafer manufacturers, a shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead any of our wafer suppliers to allocate available capacity to other customers, or to internal uses in the case of Infineon, which could impair our ability to meet our product delivery obligations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Our limited volume and customized process requirements generally make us less attractive to independent wafer manufacturers. The semiconductor industry has from time to time experienced shortages of manufacturing capacity. When production capacity is tight, the relatively small amount of wafers that we purchase from any foundry and the customized process steps that are necessary for our technologies put us at a disadvantage to foundry customers who purchase more wafers manufactured on standard processes. To secure an adequate supply of wafers, we may consider various transactions, including the use of substantial nonrefundable deposits, contractual purchase commitments, equity investments, or the formation of joint ventures. Any of these transactions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Identifying and qualifying new independent wafer manufacturers is difficult and might be unsuccessful. If our current independent wafer manufacturers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products as required, we would have to identify and qualify additional foundries. No additional wafer foundries may be able or available to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis. Even if we are able to identify a new third party manufacturer, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase. In any event, the qualification process typically takes one year or longer, which could cause product shipment delays, and qualification may not be successful. • Our independent assembly subcontractors may be unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, which could delay product shipments and result in the loss of customers or revenues. We rely primarily on foreign subcontractors for the assembly and packaging of our products and, to a lesser extent, for testing of our finished products. Our reliance on independent subcontractors involves certain risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation and delivery schedules. We generally rely on one or two subcontractors to provide particular services and have from time to time experienced difficulties with the timeliness and quality of product deliveries. We have no long-term contracts with our 29 Table of Contents subcontractors and certain of those subcontractors sometimes operate at or near full capacity. Any significant disruption in supplies from, or degradation in the quality of components or services supplied by, our subcontractors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Our independent software and hardware developers and suppliers may be unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs in a timely manner, which could impair the introduction of new products or the support of existing products. We are dependent on independent software and hardware developers for the development, supply, maintenance, and support of some of our IP cores, design and development software, programming hardware, design diagnostics and debugging tool kits, and demonstration boards (or certain elements of those products). Our reliance on independent software and hardware developers involves certain risks, including lack of control over delivery schedules and customer support. Any failure of or significant delay by our independent developers to complete software and/or hardware under development in a timely manner could disrupt the release of our software and/or the introduction of our new FPGAs, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any failure of or significant delay by our independent suppliers to provide updates or customer support could disrupt our ability to ship products or provide customer support services, which might result in the loss of revenues or customers. Any of these disruptions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our future performance will depend in part on the effectiveness of our independent distributors in marketing, selling, and supporting our products. In 2004, sales made through distributors accounted for 67% of our net revenues. Our distributors offer products of several different companies, so they may reduce their efforts to sell our products or give higher priority to other products. A reduction in sales effort, termination of relationship, failure to pay us for products, or discontinuance of operations because of financial difficulties or for other reasons by one or more of our current distributors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Distributor contracts generally can be terminated on short notice. Although we have contracts with our distributors, the agreements are terminable by either party on short notice. On March 1, 2003, we consolidated our distribution channel by terminating our agreement with Pioneer, which accounted for 26% of our net revenues in 2002. We also consolidated our distribution channel in 2001 by terminating our agreement with Arrow, which accounted for 13% of our net revenues in 2001. Unique, which accounted for 33% of our net revenues in 2004, has been our sole distributor in North America since March 1, 2003. The loss of Unique as a distributor could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Fluctuations in inventory levels at our distributors can affect our operating results. Our distributors have occasionally built inventories in anticipation of significant growth in sales and, when such growth did not occur as rapidly as anticipated, substantially reduced the amount of product ordered from us in subsequent quarters. Such a slowdown in orders generally reduces our gross margin on future sales of newer products because we are unable to take advantage of any manufacturing cost reductions while the distributor depletes its inventory at lower average selling prices. • We are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties associated with the conduct of international business. • We depend on international operations for almost all of our products. We purchase almost all of our wafers from foreign foundries and have almost all of our commercial products assembled, packaged, and tested by subcontractors located outside the United States. These 30 Table of Contents activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including trade barriers and other restrictions, changes in trade policies, governmental regulations, currency exchange fluctuations, reduced protection for intellectual property, war and other military activities, terrorism, changes in social, political, or economic conditions, and other disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We depend on international sales for a substantial portion of our revenues. Sales to customers outside North America accounted for 45% of net revenues in 2004, and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues. International sales are subject to the risks described above as well as generally longer payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable, and currency restrictions. We also maintain foreign sales offices to support our international customers, distributors, and sales representatives, which are subject to local regulation. In addition, international sales are subject to the export laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. The Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for 1999 required, among other things, that communications satellites and related items (including components) be controlled on the U.S. Munitions List. The effect of the Act was to transfer jurisdiction over commercial communications satellites from the Department of Commerce to the Department of State and to expand the scope of export licensing applicable to commercial satellites. The need to obtain additional export licenses has caused significant delays in the shipment of some of our FPGAs. Any future restrictions or charges imposed by the United States or any other country on our international sales could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our revenues and operating results have been and may again be adversely affected by downturns or other changes in the general economy, in the semiconductor industry, in our major markets, or at our major customers. We have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in revenues and results of operations due to conditions in the overall economy, in the general semiconductor industry, in our major markets, or at our major customers. We may again experience these fluctuations, which could be adverse and may be severe. • Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical and periodically subject to significant economic downturns, which are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated price erosion, and overcapacity. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000, we experienced (and the semiconductor industry in general experienced) reduced bookings and backlog cancellations due to excess inventories at communications, computer, and consumer equipment manufacturers and a general softening in the overall economy. During this downturn, which was severe and prolonged, we experienced lower revenues, which had a substantial negative effect on our results of operations. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry may likewise have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. • Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns in the communications market. We estimate that sales of our products to customers in the communications market accounted for 27% of our net revenues for 2004, 26% for 2003, and 25% for 2002, compared with 49% for 2001 and 56% for 2000. Like the semiconductor industry in general, the communications market has been cyclical and periodically subject to significant downturns. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2000, the communications market suffered its worst downturn in recent history. As a result, we experienced reduced revenues and results of operations. Any future downturns in the communications market may likewise have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents • Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns in the military and aerospace market. We estimate that sales of our products to customers in the military and aerospace industries, which carry higher overall gross margins than sales of products to other customers, accounted for 36% of our net revenues for 2004 and 2003, compared with 41% for 2002 and 26% for 2001. In general, we believe that the military and aerospace industries have accounted for a significantly greater percentage of our net revenues since the introduction of our Rad Hard FPGAs in 1996 and our Rad Tolerant FPGAs in 1998. Any future downturn in the military and aerospace market could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. • Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the military and aerospace market. In 1994, Secretary of Defense William Perry directed the Department of Defense to avoid government-unique requirements when making purchases and rely more on the commercial marketplace. Under the “Perry initiative,” the Department of Defense must strive to increase access to commercial state-of-the-art technology and facilitate the adoption by its suppliers of business processes characteristic of world-class suppliers. Integration of commercial and military development and manufacturing facilitates the development of “dual-use” processes and products and contributes to an expanded industrial base that is capable of meeting defense needs at lower costs. To that end, many of the cost-driving specifications that had been part of military procurements for many years were cancelled in the interest of buying best-available commercial products. We believe that this trend toward the use of commercial off-the-shelf products has on balance helped our business. However, if this trend continued to the point where defense contractors customarily purchased commercial-grade parts rather than military-grade parts, the revenues and gross margins that we derive from sales to customers in the military and aerospace industries would erode, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. On the other hand, there are some signs that this trend toward the use of commercial off-the-shelf products is reversing. If defense contractors were to begin using more customized ASICs and fewer commercial off-the-shelf products, the revenues and gross margins that we derive from sales to customers in the military and aerospace industries may erode, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by future downturns at any of our major customers. A relatively small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion our net revenues. We have experienced periods in which sales to our major customers declined as a percentage of our net revenues. For example, Lockheed Martin accounted for 4% of our net revenues during 2004, compared with 11% during 2003 and 3% during 2002. We believe that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of net revenues in future periods. The loss of a major customer, or decreases or delays in shipments to major customers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Any acquisition we make may harm our business, financial condition, or operating results. We have a mixed history of success in our acquisitions. For example: • In 1999, we acquired AGL for consideration valued at $7.2 million. We acquired AGL for technology used in the unsuccessful development of an SRAM-based FPGA. • In 2000, we acquired Prosys Technology, Inc. (Prosys) for consideration valued at $26.2 million. We acquired Prosys for technology used in our VariCore EPGA logic core, which was introduced in 2001 but for which no market emerged. • Also in 2000, we completed our acquisition of GateField for consideration valued at $45.7 million. We acquired GateField for its Flash technology and ProASIC FPGA family. We introduced the second- 32 Table of Contents generation ProASIC PLUS product family in 2002, the third-generation ProASIC3/E families in 2005, and are currently the only company offering nonvolatile, reprogrammable Flash FPGAs. In pursuing our business strategy, we may acquire other products, technologies, or businesses from third parties. Identifying and negotiating these acquisitions may divert substantial management time away from our operations. An acquisition could absorb substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt obligations, and/or involve the issuance of additional equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities may dilute, and could represent an interest senior to the rights of, the holders of our Common Stock. An acquisition could involve significant write-offs (possibility resulting in a loss for the fiscal year(s) in which taken) and would require the amortization of any identifiable intangibles over a number of years, which would adversely affect earnings in those years. Any acquisition would require attention from our management to integrate the acquired entity into our operations, may require us to develop expertise outside our existing business, and could result in departures of management from either us or the acquired entity. An acquired entity could have unknown liabilities, and our business may not achieve the results anticipated at the time we acquire it. The occurrence of any of these circumstances could disrupt our operations and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Changing accounting, corporate governance, public disclosure, or tax rules or practices could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Pending or new accounting pronouncements, corporate governance or public disclosure requirements, or tax regulatory rulings could have an impact, possibly material and adverse, on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Any change in accounting pronouncements, corporate governance or public disclosure requirements, or taxation rules or practices, as well as any change in the interpretation of existing pronouncements, requirements, or rules or practices, could call into question our SEC or tax filings and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change. • Proposed changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to attract and retain employees. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment: An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95.” SFAS No. 123(R) eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and will instead require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and employee stock purchase plans. We will be required to implement the standard no later than the quarter that begins July 4, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) could materially impact our results of operations. In addition, we have historically used stock options as a key component of employee compensation in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. To the extent that SFAS No. 123(R) or other new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy, or find it difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. • Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related corporate governance and public disclosure requirements has resulted in significant additional expense and uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules, have resulted in significant and uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance 33 Table of Contents matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and therefore intend to invest the resources necessary to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses as well as a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The Nasdaq National Market, or lawsuits and our reputation may be harmed. We evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent public accountants to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In performing the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, we incurred significant additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time, which adversely affected our operating results and financial condition. While we believe that our internal control procedures are adequate, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to comply with the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion. If we were not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely or adequate manner we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities or lawsuits. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our Common Stock. In any event, we expect that we will continue to incur significant expenses and diversion of management’s time to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. • We may face significant business and financial risk from claims of intellectual property infringement asserted against us, and we may be unable to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we are notified from time to time of claims that we may be infringing patents owned by others. As we sometimes have in the past, we may obtain licenses under patents that we are alleged to infringe. Although patent holders commonly offer licenses to alleged infringers, no assurance can be given that licenses will be offered or that we will find the terms of any offered licenses acceptable. No assurance can be given that any claim of infringement will be resolved or that the resolution of any claims will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our failure to obtain a license for technology allegedly used by us could result in litigation. In addition, we have agreed to defend our customers from and indemnify them against claims that our products infringe the patent or other intellectual rights of third parties. All litigation, whether or not determined in our favor, can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and managerial personnel. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation involving intellectual property, we could suffer significant (and possibly treble) monetary damages, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also be required to discontinue the use of infringing processes; cease the manufacture, use, and sale or licensing of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or obtain licenses under patents that we are infringing. In the event of a successful claim against us, our failure to develop or license a substitute technology on commercially reasonable terms could also have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have devoted significant resources to research and development and believe that the intellectual property derived from such research and development is a valuable asset important to the success of our business. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, and copyright laws combined with nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. No assurance can be given that the steps we have taken will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which our products are developed, manufactured, or sold, including Asia and Europe, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to 34 Table of Contents enforce our patents, trademarks, or copyrights or to protect our trade secrets could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to successfully develop our technologies, design our products, or operate, manage, or grow our business. Our success is dependent in large part on our ability to attract and retain key managerial, engineering, marketing, sales, and support employees. Particularly important are highly skilled design, process, software, and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. The failure to recruit employees with the necessary technical or other skills or the loss of key employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have from time to time experienced growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, resulting in increased responsibilities for management personnel. To manage future growth effectively, we will need to attract, hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a growing number of employees. During strong business cycles, we expect to experience difficulty in filling our needs for qualified engineers and other personnel. Any failure to attract and retain qualified employees, or to manage our growth effectively, could delay product development and introductions or otherwise have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We have some arrangements that may not be neutral toward a potential change of control and our Board of Directors could adopt others. We have adopted an Employee Retention Plan that provides for payment of a benefit to our employees who hold unvested stock options in the event of a change of control. Payment is contingent upon the employee remaining employed for six months after the change of control (unless the employee is terminated without cause during the six months). Each of our executive officers has also entered into a Management Continuity Agreement, which provides for the acceleration of stock options unvested at the time of a change of control in the event the executive officer’s employment is actually or constructively terminated other than for cause following the change of control. While these arrangements are intended to make executive officers and other employees neutral towards a potential change of control, they could have the effect of biasing some or all executive officers or employees in favor of a change of control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” Preferred Stock with designations, rights, and preferences determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board is empowered, without approval by holders of our Common Stock, to issue Preferred Stock with dividend, liquidation, redemption, conversion, voting, or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Common Stock. Issuance of Preferred Stock could be used to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. In addition, issuance of Preferred Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. On October 17, 2003, our Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan. Under the Plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each share of Common Stock held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 10, 2003. The provisions of the Plan can be triggered only in certain limited circumstances following the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisitions of, or tender offers for, 15% or more of our Common Stock. The Shareholder Rights Plan is designed to guard against partial tender offers and other coercive tactics to gain control of Actel without offering a fair and adequate price and terms to all shareholders. Nevertheless, the Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Actel, even if our shareholders support the acquisition. 35 Table of Contents • Our stock price may decline significantly, possibly for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. The stock markets broadly, technology companies generally, and our Common Stock in particular have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. Our Common Stock may continue to fluctuate substantially on the basis of many factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or other semiconductor companies; • changes in the expectations of analysts regarding our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or other semiconductor companies; • announcements of new products or technical innovations by us or by our competitors; or • general conditions in the semiconductor industry, financial markets, or economy. 