Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may not be able to develop and commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully. We currently have two clinical-stage drug candidates. The first drug candidate, alfimeprase, did not meet its primary endpoint in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of acute peripheral arterial occlusion, or PAO, and in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of catheter occlusion, or CO. All clinical trials for alfimeprase are currently suspended pending further analyses and discussions with outside experts, data safety monitoring boards and regulatory agencies, as well as with our partner, Bayer. After these discussions are completed, we will determine the appropriate course of action regarding the potential future development of alfimeprase. We may be unable to resume development of alfimeprase, and if so, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be affected in a materially adverse manner. We are currently enrolling patients in a Phase 2 trial of our second drug candidate, rNAPc2, for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. If we are unable to further develop rNAPc2 for any reason, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be affected in a materially adverse manner. All of our other potential products are currently in research or preclinical development, and revenues from the sales of any products may not occur for several years, if at all. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be affected in a materially adverse manner. If we fail to maintain existing licenses and collaborations, such as our collaboration with Bayer, or fail to develop new collaborations, our business will be harmed. The success of our business is dependent, in significant part, upon our ability to maintain current licensing and collaborative relationships, and to enter into multiple new licenses and collaboration agreements. We also must manage effectively the numerous issues that arise from such arrangements and agreements. Management of our relationships with these third parties has required and will require: • a significant amount of our management team’s time and effort; • effective allocation of our and third-party resources to multiple projects; 17 Table of Contents • agreements with third parties as to ownership of proprietary rights and development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; and • the recruitment and retention of management, scientific and other personnel. In January 2006, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer for the development and commercialization of alfimeprase internationally. In December 2006, all clinical trials for alfimeprase were suspended pending further analyses and discussions with outside experts, data safety monitoring boards and regulatory agencies, as well as with Bayer. Under this agreement with Bayer, Bayer has the right to commercialize alfimeprase in all territories outside the United States and, if commercialized, will pay us tiered royalties on net sales of alfimeprase, if any ranging from a minimum of 15 percent to a maximum of 37.5 percent. We retain all commercialization rights and profits from alfimeprase sales in the United States, if any. We received an up-front cash payment from Bayer of $50.0 million upon entry into the agreement, and are eligible to receive up to an additional $335.0 million in milestone payments, including $165.0 million in development milestones and $170.0 million in sales and commercialization milestones over the course of the agreement. We currently cannot predict if or when any of these milestones will be achieved. Under the terms of the agreement, Bayer has the right to terminate the collaboration at its option upon 12 months notice. We are responsible for 60 percent of any costs for global development programs associated with alfimeprase and solely bear the expense of any country-specific alfimeprase clinical trials conducted by us where the country-specific clinical trials are not part of the agreed global development program. The suspension of our clinical trials for alfimeprase may negatively impact our collaboration with Bayer. If we fail to maintain a successful collaboration with Bayer, Bayer could terminate our agreement, which would have a material, adverse effect on our business. Termination of our collaboration with Bayer could force us to expend additional amounts to develop alfimeprase, if further development is possible, and to obtain regulatory approval. Additionally, termination of the collaboration could delay any potential commercial launch of alfimeprase and our ability to pursue development of alfimeprase in other indications. In October 2004, we obtained worldwide rights to develop and commercialize alfimeprase from Amgen in exchange for payment to Amgen of future development milestones and royalties. Future milestone payments under the license agreement could total as much as $35.0 million. Under our agreement with Bayer, we retain sole responsibility for making these payments to Amgen. In accordance with the terms of the license agreement, Amgen transferred the technology necessary for the manufacture of alfimeprase drug substance to our designated manufacturer, Avecia. In February 2004, we entered into a license agreement with Dendreon relating to rNAPc2, in accordance with which we are to make milestone payments, ranging from $2.0 million to $6.0 million, upon dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 clinical trial, upon submission of an NDA and upon first commercial sale, for both the first and second indications of rNAPc2. If these and other milestones are all achieved, total milestone payments to Dendreon may reach as much as $23.5 million. 18 Table of Contents In March 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with the Pharmaceutical Division of Kirin for the development and commercialization of NU206. All operating expenses and profits related to the development and commercialization of NU206 are being shared 60 percent by us and 40 percent by Kirin. If this agreement is terminated, or we or Kirin elect under certain circumstances to no longer actively participate in the collaboration, the relationship with respect to NU206 will convert from an expense and profit sharing structure to a royalty-based structure. Our 2001 collaboration agreement with Kirin for research and development of secreted proteins expired in December 2005 in accordance with its terms. On July 31, 2006, we expanded our collaboration with Archemix Corporation, a privately held biotechnology company located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by entering into a new agreement with them, which replaces the former 50/50 collaboration signed in January 2004. Under the new agreement, Archemix will be responsible for the discovery of short-acting aptamers targeting the coagulation cascade for use in acute cardiovascular procedures, and we will be responsible for development and worldwide commercialization of these product candidates. Under the new collaboration agreement, we made an upfront license fee payment to Archemix of $4.0 million. We are also funding at least $5.25 million of Archemix’s research in the area of short-acting aptamer discovery over the first three years of the agreement. In addition, Archemix may receive payments totaling up to $35.0 million per development compound on the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones, along with potential royalty payments based on sales of licensed compounds. Nuvelo also is obligated to purchase Archemix common stock having a value equal to the lesser of $10.0 million or 15 percent of the shares issued by Archemix in a qualified public offering of Archemix stock occurring within five years of the effective date of the new collaboration agreement. At the initiation of the first Phase 3 study for any licensed compound, Archemix has the option to elect to participate in profits from sales of the compound by funding its pro rata share of prior and future product development and commercialization expenses, in lieu of receiving milestone payments and royalties with respect to that compound. Our efforts to manage simultaneously a number of collaboration arrangements may not be successful, and our failure to manage effectively such collaborations would significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with current or potential collaborative partners, we may be delayed or prevented from developing or commercializing alfimeprase, rNAPc2, NU206, NU172, or other preclinical product candidates, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration with these partners, which would be time-consuming or expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition to our existing collaborations, we may enter into new collaborative arrangements where we would share costs of identifying, developing and marketing drug candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate new collaboration arrangements of this type on acceptable terms, or at all. 19 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on the proper management of our current and future business operations, and the expenses associated with them. Our business strategy requires us to manage our operations to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. Our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities, and to manage an increasing number of relationships with collaborators and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the expenses generated by these activities. If we are unable to effectively manage our current operations and any growth we may experience, we may not be able to implement our business strategy, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our expenses through a reduction in our workforce, which could adversely affect our operations. Similarly, if we were to terminate all future development of alfimeprase, expenses related to employees engaged in the development of alfimeprase would no longer be offset by reimbursements from Bayer, and we could find it necessary to reduce our expenses through a reduction in our workforce, which could adversely affect our operations. Our clinical trials for our products may not yield results that will enable us to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell them. We, and our collaborators, will only receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates if we can demonstrate in carefully designed and conducted clinical trials that the drug candidate is safe and effective. We do not know whether our current or any future clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and expensive processes with uncertain results. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts of time and money in the clinical development of our product candidates. It will take us several years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. The results we obtain in preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results that are obtained in later studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. For example, in December 2006, we announced that alfimeprase did not meet its primary endpoint in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of acute peripheral arterial occlusion and in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of catheter occlusion. All clinical trials for alfimeprase are currently suspended pending further analyses and discussions with outside experts, data safety monitoring boards and regulatory agencies, as well as with our partner, Bayer. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of one or more of our drug candidates. If we fail to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development, we will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug candidates, and our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by governmental regulatory authorities and institutional review boards, or IRBs, and must meet the requirements of these authorities in the United States and in foreign countries, including those for informed consent and good clinical practices. We may not be able to comply with these 20 Table of Contents requirements and the FDA, a similar foreign authority, an IRB, or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Administering our drug candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our drug candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our drug candidates for any or all targeted indications. If clinical trials for a drug candidate are unsuccessful, we will be unable to commercialize the drug candidate. If one or more of our clinical trials are delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development or commercialization timelines. Either circumstance could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. For example, in December 2006, after we announced that alfimeprase did not meet its primary endpoint in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of acute peripheral arterial occlusion and in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of catheter occlusion, the closing price of one share of our common stock was $4.05 on the day of the announcement, as compared to a closing price of $19.55 on the trading day prior to the announcement. FDA and international regulatory approval of our products is uncertain. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products such as those proposed to be developed by us or our collaboration partners are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. To obtain regulatory approval of a drug product, we or our collaboration partners must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency, among other things, that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses. In addition, we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, or cGMP, and that the process for manufacturing the product has been validated in accordance with the requirements of the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals and clearances typically takes several years and will require us to expend substantial capital and resources. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of preclinical and clinical tests that will be required for FDA and international regulatory approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is in development for, and the regulations applicable to that particular drug candidate. The FDA or comparable international regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • the FDA or comparable international regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical and clinical testing in different ways than we and our collaboration partners interpret them; • the FDA or comparable international regulatory authorities may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities or the processes or facilities of our collaboration partners; or 21 Table of Contents • the FDA or comparable international regulatory officials may change their approval polices or adopt new regulations. In addition, in order to market any products outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions, including the European Medicines Evaluation Agency, or EMEA, regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries differs from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries can include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. If and when our products do obtain such approval or clearances, the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of such products would remain subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in: • warning letters; • fines; • civil penalties; • injunctions; • recall or seizure of products; • total or partial suspension of production; • refusal of the government to grant approvals; or • withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution. Any delay or failure by us, or our collaboration partners, to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates: • would adversely affect our ability to generate product, milestone and royalty revenues; • could impose significant additional costs on us or our collaboration partners; • could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain; • would adversely affect the marketing of our products; and • could cause the price of our shares to decline. Even if we do receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, the FDA or international regulatory authorities may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other 22 Table of Contents actions against us, or our products, that are adverse to our business. The FDA and comparable international regulatory authorities generally approve products for particular indications. An approval for a limited indication reduces the size of the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our drug candidates require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the disorder or condition under investigation. We, or our collaborators, may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: • design of the protocol; • the size of the patient population; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies; • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; • the success of our personnel in making the arrangements with potential clinical trial sites necessary for those sites to begin enrolling patients; • patient referral practices of physicians; • availability of clinical trial sites; and • other clinical trials seeking to enroll subjects with similar profiles. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have a negative effect on our business. Delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials would also adversely affect our ability to generate product, milestone and royalty revenues, and could impose significant additional costs on us or on our collaborators. We may merge with or acquire other companies, and our failure to receive the anticipated benefits in these transactions could harm our business. The success of any merger or acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the business of the merged or acquired company with our business. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. In January 2003, we merged with Variagenics, and we may merge with or acquire other companies in the future. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies and/or our subsidiary include, among others: • consolidating research and development operations; 23 Table of Contents • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • preserving the research and development and other important relationships of the companies; • integrating and managing the technology of two companies; • using the merged or acquired company’s liquid capital and other assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; • diverting management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We cannot assure you that we will receive all of the anticipated benefits of any mergers or acquisitions, or that any of the risks described above will not occur. Our failure to receive anticipated benefits of, and our exposure to inherent risks in, any such merger or acquisition transaction could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are heavily dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions, including clinical trials management and manufacturing. Our current and future arrangements with these third parties may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We currently rely upon third parties to perform administrative functions and functions related to the research, development, preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates. Our reliance on third party contract research organizations and consultants that manage and monitor our clinical trials may result in delays in completing, or in failing to complete, our clinical trials if they fail to perform with the speed and competency we expect. Our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct research and testing, including Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) toxicology studies necessary to gather the data necessary to file INDs with the FDA, for any of our drug candidates may result in delays in our regulatory filings if they do not conduct their research or testing properly, or if they fail to complete their contract research or testing on the anticipated schedule. In either case, the progress of our clinical programs may be delayed and our research and development costs may increase, which may in turn have a material adverse affect on our business. We do not have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture our drug candidates on our own. We rely, and will continue to rely, on third parties, such as contract research and manufacturing organizations, to manufacture our drug candidates for clinical trials, and, if our products are approved, in quantities for commercial sales. We currently rely on a number of sole-source service providers and suppliers to manufacture bulk drug substance, fill and finish our drug products, and label and package them, and we do not have long-term supply agreements with these third-party manufacturers. We may not be able to finalize contractual arrangements, transfer technology or maintain relationships with such organizations in order to file an investigational new drug application, or IND, with the FDA, and proceed with clinical trials for any of our drug candidates. 24 Table of Contents Our drug candidates have never been manufactured on a commercial scale. Until recently, we have relied on Amgen to manufacture our clinical drug candidate, alfimeprase. In June 2005, we entered into a definitive agreement with Avecia for the scale up and validation of the manufacturing process for alfimeprase bulk drug substance, and subsequently transitioned the process of alfimeprase manufacture from Amgen to Avecia. We do not have an agreement with Avecia for the manufacture of commercial quantities of alfimeprase bulk drug substance. In May 2006, we executed a drug product development and clinical supply agreement with Baxter for the lyophilization, filling, finishing, packaging and testing of alfimeprase, and process development related thereto. We do not have an agreement in place for the commercial-scale manufacture of alfimeprase final drug product. We also may need to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence between alfimeprase manufactured by Avecia and Baxter and that previously manufactured by Amgen. While we currently believe we have enough supplies of alfimeprase to complete, if resumed, the suspended phase 3 trials for the treatment of acute PAO and catheter occlusion, additional supplies may be necessary for any re-initiated trials and for trials in other indications. We are not yet certain that Avecia and Baxter would be able to manufacture additional supplies of alfimeprase for such trials. If Avecia and Baxter are unable to manufacture clinical or commercial grade alfimeprase for us if and when we need it, we may not have adequate supplies to complete our suspended clinical trials if re-initiated, new trials, or to obtain regulatory approvals for alfimeprase. If Avecia and Baxter are unable to produce alfimeprase in the quantities and with the quality we need, when we need it, we may incur significant additional expenses, and our and Bayer’s efforts to complete any re-initiated clinical trials, or clinical trials in other indications, and obtain approval to market alfimeprase could be significantly delayed. With respect to rNAPc2, we received a supply of rNAPc2 from Dendreon, which is being used in our research and development activities and in our currently enrolling Phase 2 trial for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. We are currently engaging third-party manufacturers to produce additional supplies of rNAPc2 for use in future clinical trials. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to manufacture the bulk drug substance and final drug product at a cost, in quantities or with the quality necessary to make this drug commercially viable. We also may need to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence between rNAPc2 manufactured by the current manufacturer and the original manufacturer. If and when any of our other drug candidates, such as NU206 and NU172, enter the clinical trial phase, we will initially depend on third-party contract manufacturers to develop the necessary production processes, and produce the volume of cGMP-grade material needed to complete such trials. We have entered into and intend to enter into additional contractual relationships with third parties in order to (i) complete the GLP toxicology and other studies necessary to file INDs with the FDA, (ii) produce a sufficient volume of cGMP-grade material in order to conduct clinical trials of these other drug candidates, and (iii) fill and finish, and label and package our material. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these tasks on a timely basis or that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of material or other manufacturing services on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, the failure of any of these third parties to 25 Table of Contents perform their obligations may delay our filing for an IND or impede our progress through the clinical trial phase. Any significant delay or interruption would have a material adverse effect on our ability to file an IND with the FDA and/or proceed with the clinical trial phase for any of our drug candidates. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must continually adhere to cGMP enforced by the FDA through a facilities inspection program. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidate could be interrupted, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant pre-market approval of our products. Our reliance on these relationships poses a number of risks, including: • ineffective clinical trials management or monitoring resulting in delays in or interruptions to our clinical trials; • delays in, or failures to achieve, scale-up to commercial quantities, or changes to current raw material suppliers or product manufacturers (whether the change is attributable to us or the supplier or manufacturer), resulting in delayed clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our drug candidates; • inability of third parties to manufacture, including filing and finishing, and labeling and packaging, our drug candidates in a cost-effective or timely manner or in quantities needed for clinical trials or commercial sales; • our inability to effectively control the resources devoted by our partners to our programs or products; • disagreements with third parties that could disrupt our operation or delay or terminate the research, development or manufacturing of drug candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; • inadequate contractual protection or difficulty in enforcing the contracts if one of our partners fails to perform; • failure of these third parties to comply with regulatory requirements; • conflicts of interest between third parties’ work for us and their work for another entity or entities, and the resulting loss of their services; • failure to identify acceptable manufacturers or other suppliers or enter into favorable long-term agreements with them; and • lack of all necessary intellectual property rights to manufacture and sell our drug candidates. Given these risks, our current and future arrangements with third parties may not be successful. If these efforts fail, we would be required to devote additional internal resources to the activities currently performed, or to be performed, by third parties, to seek alternative third-party sources, or to delay our product development or commercialization. 26 Table of Contents We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for and make public statements regarding the timing of certain accomplishments, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates and time of product launch, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may not be achieved, and the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, disagreements with current or future collaborative partners, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and manufacturing scale-up and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to launch any of our products in anticipated timeframes. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our business will be materially adversely affected, and the price of our shares will decline. We are dependent on key personnel, and we must attract and retain qualified employees, collaborators and consultants. The success of our business is highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, including our senior management team. The loss of the services of any such individual might seriously harm our product development and commercialization efforts. Retaining and training personnel with the requisite skills is challenging and extremely competitive, particularly in Northern California, where we are located. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to help develop our potential products and execute our research, development and commercialization strategy. We have programs in place to retain personnel, including programs to create a positive work environment and competitive compensation packages. Because competition for employees in our field is intense, however, we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract qualified individuals to fill open positions. Our success also depends on the continued availability of outside scientific collaborators, including collaborators at research institutions, to perform research and develop processes to advance and augment our internal research efforts. Competition for collaborators is intense. We also rely on services provided by outside consultants. Attracting and retaining qualified outside consultants is competitive, and, generally, outside consultants can terminate their relationship with us at will. If we do not retain qualified personnel, outside consultants and scientific collaborators, or if we experience turnover or difficulties recruiting new employees or outside consultants, our research, development and commercialization programs could be delayed, and we could experience difficulties in generating sufficient revenue to maintain our business. The success of our potential products in research and preclinical studies does not guarantee that these results will be replicated in humans. Several of our drug development programs are currently in the research stage or in preclinical development. Although our clinical development-stage drug candidates have shown favorable results in preclinical studies, these results may not be replicated in our 27 Table of Contents clinical trials with humans. None of our potential therapeutic protein candidates from our own portfolio has advanced to Phase 1 clinical trials. Before we make any products available to the public from our research and development programs, we or our collaboration partners will need to conduct further research and development and complete laboratory testing and animal studies. These programs may not move beyond their current stages of development. Even if our research does advance, we will need to engage in certain additional preclinical development efforts to determine whether a product is sufficiently safe and effective to enter clinical trials. We have little experience with these activities with respect to protein candidates and may not be successful in developing these products. Consequently, there is no assurance that the results in our research and preclinical studies are predictive of the results that we may see in our clinical trials with humans or that they are predictive of whether any resulting products will be safe and effective in humans. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates; our ability to commercialize products is unproven. We have not yet commercialized any of our in-licensed therapeutic product candidates. Our commercialization of products is subject to several risks, including but not limited to: • the possibility that a product is toxic, ineffective or unreliable; • failure to obtain regulatory approval for the product; • difficulties in manufacturing the product on a large scale; • difficulties in planning, coordinating and executing the commercial launch of the product; • difficulties in marketing, distribution or sale of the product; • the possibility of a failure to comply with laws and regulations related to the marketing sale and reimbursement of the product; • competition from superior products; or • third-party patents that preclude us from marketing a product. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaboration partners receive for our product candidates may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product candidates may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping for any approved product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Additionally, we, our collaborators and our suppliers, may not be able to produce any products in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost or may not be able to successfully market such products. If we do not develop a commercially viable product, then we will suffer significant harm to our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if a product candidate is approved for commercial sale, significant strategic planning and resources will be necessary to effectively coordinate commercial launch of the product in the approved indication or indications, and to effectively market, distribute and sell the product for use in the approved indication or indications. We currently have limited 28 Table of Contents sales, marketing and distribution capability. As the potential commercialization of our products approaches, we intend to hire additional marketing and sales personnel to enable us to participate in the commercialization of our products in the United States. If we are unsuccessful in hiring and retaining sales and marketing personnel with appropriate technical and sales expertise or in developing an adequate distribution capability to support them, our ability to generate product revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, the marketing, distribution, sale and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products is heavily regulated, and we must comply with all such applicable laws and regulations, or incur costs, fees, fines and other liabilities associated with non-compliance. If our or a collaboration partner’s commercial launch of a product approved for commercial sale were to be unsuccessful, or if we or a collaboration partner were to fail in our or their efforts to properly market, distribute or sell any product approved for sale, our business, financial condition and operating results would suffer significant harm. Even if approved, our products may not be accepted in the marketplace, and we may not be able to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if they are approved for marketing, our products, if any, may never achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any products developed by us, alone or in conjunction with our collaboration partners, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of the products; • convenience and ease of administration; • cost-effectiveness; • our products’ potential advantages over alternative treatment methods; • marketing, sales and distribution support of our products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept and utilize any of the products that we alone, or in conjunction with our collaboration partners, develop. In practice, competitors may be more effective in marketing their drugs. The lack of such market acceptance would significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing and are accepted by physicians, patients and the medical community, the size of the market for these products may be insufficient to sustain our business, or may not provide an acceptable return on our investment in the development of these products. As a result, the commercialization of any of our product candidates could fail even if we receive marketing approval from the FDA or similar foreign authorities, and acceptance by the medical and patient communities. We face intense competition. The biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. Our products, if successfully developed, will 29 Table of Contents compete with a number of traditional drugs and therapies and with new products currently under development. We also expect to face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets. Research and discoveries by others may result in breakthroughs that render our potential products obsolete even before they begin to generate any revenue. The competitors for our drugs currently in development will vary depending on the particular indication pursued, and may include major pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology firms, many of which have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we have. Our first product candidate, alfimeprase, is a clot dissolver. If approved, it could face competition from other drugs and devices that are used to dissolve clots. Competition differs depending on the indication and includes, for example, alteplase, an approved Genentech, Inc. product, reteplase, an approved PDL BioPharma Inc. product and devices such as Possis Medical Inc.’s AngioJet ® and Concentric Medical Inc.’s Merci® Retriever. Our second product candidate, rNAPc2 is an anticoagulant for the potential treatment of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and is also a potential candidate for the treatment of cancer. If approved for the treatment of ACS, rNAPc2 could face competition from a variety of products, such as enoxaparin from Sanofi-Aventis and fondaparinux from GlaxoSmithKline PLC. If approved for the treatment of colorectal cancer, rNAPc2 could face competition from Genentech’s Avastin, ImClone Systems Incorporated’s Erbitux®, Amgen’s Vectibix™, as well as numerous other therapeutics for treating cancer. Our competitors may obtain patents and regulatory approvals for their competing products more rapidly than we, or our collaboration partners, or develop products that are more effective than those developed by us, or our collaboration partners. All of our products will face competition from companies developing similar products as well as from companies developing other forms of treatment for the same conditions. Many of the companies developing competing products have greater expertise than we or our collaboration partners have in discovery, research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These companies as well as other organizations compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. We may face competition with respect to: • product efficacy and safety; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; • availability of resources; • reimbursement coverage; and • price and patent position, including the potentially dominant patent positions of others. There can be no assurance that research and development by others will not render the products that we may develop obsolete or uneconomical, or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy developed by us or that any therapy we develop will be preferred to any existing or newly-developed alternative products. 30 Table of Contents We face uncertainty with respect to coverage, pricing, third-party reimbursements and healthcare reform. Our ability to collect significant revenues from our products may depend on our ability, and the ability of our collaboration partners or customers, to obtain adequate levels of coverage for our products and reimbursement from third-party payers such as: • government health administration authorities; • private health insurers; • health maintenance organizations; • pharmacy benefit management companies; and • other healthcare-related organizations. Third-party payers may deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA or other government regulators, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. If third-party payers deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively. We also face the risk that we will have to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated as a result of the current trend in the United States towards managed healthcare through health maintenance organizations. Currently, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Prices could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. Existing U.S. laws, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, or future legislation to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs could also adversely affect prices of our approved products, if any. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and the results of potential healthcare reforms may prevent us from maintaining prices for our products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our products are marketed outside of the United States, foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us and our collaboration partners from maintaining prices for our products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to the risk of natural disasters. Our facilities are located in Northern California. If a fire, earthquake, flood or other natural disaster disrupts our research or development efforts, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Although we maintain personal property and general business interruption coverage, we do not maintain earthquake or flood insurance coverage for personal property or resulting business interruption. 31 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCIAL RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE VOLATILITY We have not been profitable, anticipate continuing losses and may never become profitable. We had net losses of $52.5 million in 2004, $71.6 million in 2005 and $130.6 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $458.2 million. All of our product candidates are in various stages of product development, and some are still in research or in early development. None of them are approved for sale. The process of developing our drug products will require significant additional research and development, preclinical testing, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. These activities, together with drug manufacturing, commercialization, general administrative and other expenses, are expected to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. To date, we have not generated any revenues from product sales. We do not expect to achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue from product sales for several years, and we may never do so. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future, and these losses may increase significantly as we continue preclinical research and clinical trials, apply for regulatory approvals, develop our drug candidates, expand our operations and develop systems that support commercialization of our potential products. These losses, among other things, have caused and may cause our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. We may not be successful in developing our drug candidates, obtaining regulatory approvals and commercializing our products, and our operations may not be profitable even if any of our drug candidates are commercialized. We may never generate profits and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, utilization of our net operating loss carry forwards and credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state law provisions. It is possible that certain transactions that we have entered into, including our merger with Variagenics in January 2003, when considered in connection with other transactions, may result in a “change in ownership” for purposes of these provisions. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties” (FIN 48). FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as “more-likely-than-not” to be sustained by the taxing authority. The recently issued literature also provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN 48 is effective for Nuvelo as of January 1, 2007, and any differences between the amounts recognized in the statements of financial position prior to the adoption of FIN 48 and the amounts reported after adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We are evaluating the potential impact of the implementation of FIN 48 on our financial position and results of operations. We are potentially subject to additional non-cash charges, which can negatively impact our results of operations. For example, as a result of our adoption of SFAS 123(R), we must measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to 32 Table of Contents employees at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that are used as a basis for valuing future awards change over time, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may increase significantly. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by these or other non-cash charges that we may incur in the future. We will need to raise additional capital, and such capital may be unavailable to us when we need it or not available on acceptable terms. We will need to raise significant additional capital to finance the research and clinical development of our drug products. If future securities offerings are successful, they could dilute our current stockholders’ equity interests and reduce the market price of our common stock. Financing may be unavailable when we need it or may not be available on acceptable terms. The unavailability of financing may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for our research, development and marketing activities necessary to commercialize our potential biopharmaceutical products. We may also be required to raise capital by granting rights to third parties to develop and market drug candidates that we would prefer to develop and market on our own, potentially reducing the ultimate value that we could realize from these drug candidates. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when we need it, the capital markets may perceive that we are not able to raise the amount of financing we desire, or on the terms that we desire. This perception, if it occurs, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be forced to delay, reduce the scope of, eliminate or divest one or more of our research or development programs. Any such action could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our currently available funds will depend on many factors, including, among others, the following: • our ability to maintain, and the financial commitments involved in, our existing collaborative and licensing arrangements, including our ability to continue to receive cost-sharing reimbursements from our collaboration partners; • the status of our collaboration with Bayer, in accordance with the alfimeprase license and collaboration agreement we entered into in January 2006; • progress in current and anticipated clinical studies of our products, including alfimeprase, rNAPc2, NU206 and NU172; • our need to develop, acquire or license new technologies or products; • future funding commitments to new and existing collaborators; • the cost of manufacturing our material for preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes; • our ability to establish new collaborative relationships with other companies to share costs and expertise of identifying developing and commercializing drug candidates; 33 Table of Contents • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs, including development of product candidates; • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs, including progress in our research and preclinical studies; • the cost involved in maintaining facilities to support research and development of our product candidates; • the cost of prosecuting and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to use our common stock to repay our line of credit with Dr. George Rathmann; • our ability to use our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge Capital; • current conditions and the uncertainty of future conditions in the financial markets and in the biotech sector; • other factors not within our control. We may face fluctuations in operating results. Our operating results may rise or fall significantly from period to period as a result of many factors, including: • the amount of research and development we engage in; • the number of product candidates we have, their progress in research, preclinical and clinical studies and the costs involved in manufacturing them; • our ability to maintain existing and enter into new strategic relationships; • the scope, duration and effectiveness of our licensing and collaborative arrangements; • our ability to maintain our facilities to support our operations; • the costs involved in prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • the possibility that others may have or obtain patent rights that are superior to ours; • changes in government regulation; • changes in the price of our common stock or other variables used as a basis for valuing stock-based awards; • changes in accounting policies or principles; and • release of successful products into the market by our competitors. In addition, as a result of our adoption of FAS 123(R), we must measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over 34 Table of Contents the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing future awards change over time, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. Any such variance from one period to the next could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results. Excluding our two clinical stage drug candidates, our potential products currently are in research or preclinical development, and revenues from the sales of any products resulting from this research and development may not occur for several years, if at all. We have a significant amount of fixed costs such as lease obligations, and certain charges to our statement of operations are dependent on movements in the price of our common stock, which historically has been and is likely to remain highly volatile. As a result, we may experience fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and continue to generate losses. Quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors or the financial community, which may result in a drop in the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has historically been and is likely to remain highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. Stock prices and trading volumes for many biopharmaceutical companies fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including factors which may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations, such as media coverage, legislative and regulatory measures and the activities of various interest groups or organizations. This market volatility, as well as general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the return on any investment in our company. Historically, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006, the price ranged between a high of $20.98 per share and a low of $3.35 per share, and between January 1, 2007 and January 31, 2007, the price ranged between a high of $4.09 per share and a low of $3.35 per share. Significant market price fluctuations of our common stock can be due to a variety of factors, including: • the depth of demand for our common stock; • the experimental nature of, and public concern with respect to, our product candidates; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • sales of our common stock by existing holders, or sales of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or upon repayment of our line of credit with Dr. George Rathmann; • market conditions relating to the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries; • any announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or collaborations, or clinical progress or lack thereof by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; 35 Table of Contents • announcements concerning regulatory developments or developments with respect to proprietary rights; • changes in our collaborative arrangements; • changes in or our failure to meet market or, to the extent securities analysts follow our common stock, securities analysts’ expectations; • loss of key personnel; • changes in accounting principles; and • general market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology and other life science stocks in particular, has historically been subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The volatility of the market price of our securities could engender class action securities litigation. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action securities litigation has often been instituted against such a company. This risk is especially acute for us, because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. Any such litigation instigated against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, in December 2006, after we announced that alfimeprase did not meet its primary endpoint in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of acute peripheral arterial occlusion and in the first of two planned Phase 3 trials for the treatment of catheter occlusion, the closing price of one share of our common stock was $4.05 on the day of the announcement, as compared to a closing price of $19.55 on the trading day prior to the announcement. On February 9, 2007, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors were named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The suit alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 related to the clinical trial results of alfimeprase, which we announced in December 2006. A second lawsuit was filed on February 16, 2007, and it is possible that other similar lawsuits will be filed. We may in the future be the target of additional securities class action litigation. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock could depress prevailing market prices of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had 53,151,781 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our directors, officers and other affiliates and unregistered shares held by 36 Table of Contents non-affiliates. As of December 31, 2006, our directors, officers and greater than five percent stockholders held approximately 15 percent of the shares of our outstanding common stock. Although we do not believe that our directors, officers and greater than five percent stockholders have any present intentions to dispose of large amounts of any shares of common stock owned by them, there can be no assurance that such intentions will not change in the future. The sale of these additional shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Under registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act, as of December 31, 2006, we have also registered approximately 10,693,764 shares of our common stock which may be issued under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, 2002 Equity Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock Option Plan, Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, Scientific Advisory Board/Consultants Stock Option Plan, stock option agreements entered into outside of any of our stock option plans, and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Included in the 10,693,764 shares, as of December 31, 2006, are (i) 7,188,106 shares of our common stock issuable under outstanding options to purchase our common stock under the specified plans, (ii) 773,539 shares of our common stock issuable under stock option agreements entered into outside of any of our stock option plans, (iii) 2,547,338 shares of our common stock reserved for future option grants under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, and (iv) 184,781 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2006, outstanding options were exercisable for 3,629,540 shares of common stock. If and when these options are exercised, such shares are available for sale in the open market without further registration under the Securities Act. The existence of these outstanding options and share reserves may negatively affect our ability to complete future equity financings at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms. The exercise of those options, and the prompt resale of shares of our common stock received, may also result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, 1,227,323 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, which were all exercisable as of this date. Once a warrant is exercised, the holder can arrange for the resale of shares either by invoking any applicable registration rights, causing the shares to be registered under the Securities Act and thus freely transferable, or by relying on an exemption to the Securities Act. If these registration rights, or similar registration rights that may apply to securities we may issue in the future, are exercised, it could result in additional sales of our common stock in the market, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, $4.5 million of our common stock was issuable, upon mutual agreement, to convert the remaining amount due on the promissory note under our line of credit with Dr. George Rathmann, including accrued interest, at a conversion price equal to the average price of our common stock over a 20-day period, ending two days prior to conversion, or, if in connection with an equity financing, at the offering price. If we agree to repay this note with our common stock, whether pursuant to acceleration of the note or otherwise, the resale of shares of our common stock received by Dr. Rathmann may also result in significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Under the August 2005 committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, that we entered into with Kingsbridge Capital Ltd., and related stock purchase and registration 37 Table of Contents rights agreements, we may periodically sell up to $75.0 million in shares of our common stock, not to exceed 8,075,000 shares, to Kingsbridge over a three-year period, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. In the fourth quarter of 2005, under this CEFF, we sold 1,839,400 shares for gross proceeds of $14.4 million, and in October 2006 we sold 568,247 shares for gross proceeds of $10.0 million. We may sell the balance of 5,667,353 shares to Kingsbridge through the expiration of the CEFF in October 2008, limited to the remaining $50.6 million available under the facility. Should we sell further securities under the CEFF, it could have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. We will need to raise significant additional capital to finance the research, development and commercialization of our drug products. If future securities offerings are successful, they could dilute our current stockholders’ equity interests and reduce the market price of our common stock. The committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge may not be available to us when we desire to draw upon it, may require us to make additional “blackout” payments to Kingsbridge, and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In August 2005, in connection with a committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, we entered into a stock purchase agreement and related registration rights agreement with Kingsbridge Capital Ltd. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $75.0 million, not to exceed 8,075,000 shares, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. In the fourth quarter of 2005, under this stock purchase agreement, we sold 1,839,400 shares for gross proceeds of $14.4 million and in October 2006 we sold 568,247 shares for gross proceeds of $10.0 million. We may sell the balance of 5,667,353 shares to Kingsbridge through the expiration of the CEFF in October 2008, limited to the remaining $50.6 million available under the facility. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum volume weighted average price for our common stock of $2.50 per share; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; effectiveness of a registration statement to register such shares for resale by Kingsbridge; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. We are entitled in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statement under which shares sold under the CEFF are registered for resale, thereby prohibiting Kingsbridge from selling shares. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a sale of shares under the CEFF, or if the registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our agreement with Kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge and the change in the market 38 Table of Contents price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the market price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout payment could be significant. Should we sell additional shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of any blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. If we draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to ten percent from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our share price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Under our August 31, 2004 Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, as amended, we cannot pay dividends without Silicon Valley Bank’s prior written consent, except for dividends paid in shares of our capital stock. Furthermore, we may incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends. We face exposure to currency fluctuations for transactions denominated in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our results of operations. To mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on our cash outflows for certain foreign currency-denominated purchases, we have developed and implemented a foreign exchange risk management policy utilizing forward contracts to hedge against this exposure. For example, we have entered into a number of foreign exchange hedge contracts with Silicon Valley Bank in relation to our development and validation agreement with Avecia, pursuant to which we are required to make payments to Avecia in British pounds. Although we use forward contracts, when appropriate, to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our future results, these efforts may not be successful, and any such fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, prevent or delay a takeover, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of our stockholder rights plan and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; 39 Table of Contents • authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and hinder a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholder meeting. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides that all stockholder action must be effected at a duly called meeting and not by a written consent. The by-laws provide, however, that our stockholders may call a special meeting of stockholders only upon a request of stockholders owning at least 50 percent of our common stock. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. We designed these provisions to reduce our vulnerability to unsolicited acquisition proposals and to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy fights. These provisions, however, could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares. As a consequence, they also may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts. Such provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. We are permitted to issue shares of our preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as our board of directors determines. Therefore, the rights of the holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders. On June 5, 1998, our board of directors adopted a rights plan and declared a dividend with respect to each share of our common stock then outstanding. This dividend took the form of a right, which entitles the holders to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A junior participating preferred stock at a purchase price that is subject to adjustment from time to time. These rights have also been issued in connection with each share of our common stock issued after June 15, 1998. The rights are exercisable only if a person or entity or affiliated group of persons or entities acquires, or has announced its intention to acquire, 15 percent (27.5 percent in the case of certain approved stockholders) or more of our outstanding common stock. The adoption of the rights plan makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. This rights agreement was amended on March 19, 2004, to reflect our reincorporation under Delaware law. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger or sale of more than ten percent of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15 percent or more of the corporation’s 40 Table of Contents outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock unless: • the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock; • after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15 percent or more of the corporation’s stock, the stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. The provisions of our governing documents, stockholder rights plan and current Delaware law may, collectively: • lengthen the time required for a person or entity to acquire control of us through a proxy contest for the election of a majority of our board of directors; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price; and • generally deter efforts to obtain control of us. We have adopted an Executive Change in Control and Severance Benefit Plan that could discourage, prevent or delay a takeover, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. In December 2004, our board of directors approved an “Executive Change in Control and Severance Benefit Plan” for our executive officers and other eligible employees, which was amended and restated in May 2005. The purpose of the plan is to provide for the payment of severance benefits and/or change in control benefits to certain of our eligible employees, and the plan supersedes and replaces any change in control and/or severance plans adopted by us previously. All of our executive employees at the level of Vice President or above have been designated as participants in the plan and our board of directors may designate other eligible individuals as participants. The plan provides that, upon a change in control of the company as defined under the plan, all Nuvelo stock options and stock awards held by a plan participant will become fully vested. Such shares held by a plan participant will also become fully vested if the participant is terminated without cause, or constructively terminated, within one month preceding our change in control. If a participant is terminated without cause or constructively terminated one month before or one year after our change in control, he or she will also be entitled to certain cash severance and continued medical benefits. The change in control and severance benefits for certain of our employees provided for under this plan could make it more difficult and expensive, or less desirable, for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. 41 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS We have been named as a defendant in class action suits and defending these lawsuits could hurt our business. On February 9, 2007, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors were named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The suit alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 related to the clinical trial results of alfimeprase, which we announced on December 11, 2006, and seeks damages on behalf of purchasers of our common stock during the period between January 5, 2006 and December 8, 2006. Specifically, the suit alleges that we misled investors regarding the efficacy of alfimeprase and the drug’s likelihood of success. The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief. A second lawsuit was filed on February 16, 2007, and it is possible that other similar lawsuits will be filed. To the extent similar cases are filed, we expect such cases to be consolidated. We cannot assure you that this litigation will not have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, Variagenics has been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit alleging the failure to disclose additional and excessive commissions purportedly solicited by and paid to underwriters who are also named defendants in the lawsuit. Plaintiffs in the suit allege that underwriters took these commissions and in exchange allocated shares of Variagenics’ stock to their preferred customers through alleged agreements with these preferred customers that tied the allocation of initial public offering shares to agreements by the customers to make additional aftermarket purchases at pre-determined prices. As a result of our merger with Variagenics, we are obligated to continue to defend against this litigation. Currently we are in the process of approving a settlement by and between the issuers that are defendants in the lawsuit, the insurers of those issuers, and the plaintiffs. We believe that any loss or settlement amount will not be material to our financial position or results of operation, and that any settlement payment and attorneys’ fees accrued with respect to the suit will be paid by our insurance provider. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case until a final settlement is executed. Failure to finalize a settlement could require us to pay substantial damages. The commercial success of our products will depend upon our ability to protect the intellectual property rights associated with our products and drug candidates. Our competitive success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including intellectual property that we license. The patent positions of biotechnology companies involve complex legal and factual questions, and we cannot assure you that our patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using our technology. We could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our proprietary rights against infringement. We currently have, or have in-licensed, issued patents and pending patent applications that include claims to our in-licensed clinical products. We obtained exclusive worldwide rights to alfimeprase from Amgen in October 2004. We obtained exclusive worldwide rights for all indications of rNAPc2 and all of the rNAPc molecules 42 Table of Contents owned by Dendreon in February 2004. The United States government may claim a non-exclusive right to use rNAPc2 with respect to the treatment of hemorrhagic fever. We also currently have patents that cover some of our technological discoveries and patent applications that we expect to protect some of our gene, protein and technological discoveries. We will continue to apply for patents for our discoveries. We cannot assure you that any of our applications, or our licensors’ applications, will issue as patents, or that any patent issued or licensed to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or held unenforceable by way of an interference proceeding or litigation. The timing of the grant of a patent cannot be predicted. Patent applications describing and seeking patent protection of methods, compositions, or processes relating to proprietary inventions involving human therapeutics could require us to generate data, which may involve substantial costs. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over others’ applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. We depend on our collaborators and other third parties that license intellectual property to us to protect our licensed intellectual property. These collaborators and other third parties could fail to take a necessary step to protect our licensed intellectual property, which could seriously harm our intellectual property position. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, certain of the patent applications describing our proprietary methods are filed only in the United States. Even where we have filed our patent applications internationally, for some cases and in certain countries, we have chosen not to maintain foreign patent protection by opting not to enter national phase or opting not to pay maintenance annuities. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. 43 Table of Contents If the manufacture, use or sale of our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial damages or licensing fees and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation may be necessary to assert infringement claims, enforce patent rights, protect trade secrets or know-how and determine the enforceability, scope and validity of certain proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. Regardless of merit or outcome, our involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause us to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may include substantial cost and ongoing royalties. Licenses may not be available from third parties, or may not be obtainable on satisfactory terms. An adverse determination or a failure to obtain necessary licenses may restrict or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, if any. These outcomes could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our market success depends in part on us neither infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties, nor breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. We are aware of third-party patents and proprietary rights that may relate to our technology. We may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others for ourselves, our collaboration partners and our service providers in order to conduct research, development or commercialization of some or all of our programs. We plan to seek licenses, as we deem appropriate, but it is possible that we may infringe upon these patents or proprietary rights of third parties. If we do not obtain these licenses, we may encounter delays in product market introductions, incur substantial costs while we attempt to design around existing patents or not be able to develop, manufacture or sell products. In response, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our collaboration partners or our service providers. We may consequently be subjected to substantial damages for past infringement or be required to modify our products if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties, which could adversely impact our product costs and have an impact on our business. Further, if we do obtain these licenses, the agreed terms may necessitate reevaluation of the potential commercialization of any one of our programs. Failing to obtain a license could result in litigation. Even if these claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. 44 Table of Contents We face product liability exposure and potential unavailability of insurance. We risk financial exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products developed by us, or our collaboration partners, if any, result in personal injury. We may experience losses due to product liability claims in the future. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage. Such coverage, however, may not be adequate or may not continue to be available to us in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost, or at all. We may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing. A product liability claim or other claim, product recalls, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, may significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face heavy government regulation, and any disputes relating to business practices or improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials, chemicals and patient samples could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development and production activities involve the controlled use of hazardous or radioactive materials, chemicals, including oxidizing and reducing reagents, infectious disease agents, patient tissue and blood samples. We, our collaborators, and service providers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. We could be liable for accidental contamination or discharge or any resultant injury from hazardous materials, and conveyance, processing, and storage of and data on patient samples. If we, our collaborators, or service providers fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties or be held liable for any damages that result, and this liability could exceed our financial resources. Further, future changes to environmental health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. In addition, our collaborators and service providers may be working with hazardous materials, including viruses and hazardous chemicals, in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, patient samples that may contain viruses and hazardous materials. The cost of this liability could exceed our resources. We also are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, general business practices, the experimental use of animals, and the environment. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of government regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that might significantly harm the discovery, development, production and marketing of our products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations, and we may be adversely affected by the cost of such compliance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 45 Table of Contents 