D. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those investors who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate, and an investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in the Company’s common shares. Additional risks that the Company is unaware of or that are currently believed to be immaterial may become important factors that affect the Company’s business. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Company’s business plan to acquire additional exploration prospects, continue exploration activities on its current projects, and, if warranted, undertake development and mining operations, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: Lack of Proven Properties and Development Funds. At this point, all of the Company’s exploration prospects and property interests (collectively the “Properties”) are gold prospects in Brazil, and the Company has no income from operations. While the Company has sufficient funds to complete the exploration phase currently underway, additional funds will likely be necessary in order for the Company to pursue further exploration on its existing properties and to acquire and develop additional exploration prospects. Certain of the Company’s planned expenditures are discretionary and may be increased or decreased based upon funds available to the Company. As of May 22, 2009, the Company had sufficient cash to fund general and administrative expenses and to complete planned exploration payments during fiscal 2010. As discussed above, the Company will likely be required to raise additional capital for additional exploration activity on its existing properties and acquisition of new exploration prospects subsequent to fiscal 2010. There can be no assurance that additional funds can be raised. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. Limited Exploration Prospects. The Company’s existing properties are all gold prospects in Brazil. Accordingly, the Company does not have a diversified portfolio of exploration prospects either geographically or by mineral targets. The Company’s operations could be significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold, as the economic viability of the Company’s projects is heavily dependent upon the market price of gold. Additionally, the Company’s projects are subject to the laws of Brazil and can be negatively impacted by the existing laws and regulations of that country, as they apply to mineral exploration, land ownership, royalty interests and taxation, and by any potential changes of such laws and regulations. Title to Properties. The Company cannot guarantee title to all of its Properties as the Properties may be subject to prior mineral rights applications with priority, prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. Certain of the mineral rights held by the Company are held under applications for mineral rights and, until final approval of such applications is received, the Company’s rights to such mineral rights may not materialize and the exact boundaries of the Company’s properties may be subject to adjustment. The Company does not maintain title insurance on its properties. Environmental Laws. The exploration programs conducted by the Company are subject to national, state and/or local regulations regarding environmental considerations in the jurisdiction where they are located. Most operations involving exploration or production activities are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and 3 mining procedures, reclamation, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of stream and fresh water sources, odor, noise, dust, and other environmental protection controls adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as the rights of adjoining property owners. The Company may be required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration or production of minerals may have upon the environment. All requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming, and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. However, at this time, the Company is exploring its Properties and does not anticipate preparing environmental impact statements or assessments until such time as the Company believes one or more of its Properties will prove to be commercially feasible. Exploration and Development Risks. The business of exploring for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. At present, the Company has prepared a preliminary economic assessment of one of the Company’s properties, the Tocantinzinho Property. The remaining property is an early stage exploration prospect and the Company has formed no estimate of a potential ore body. The grade of any ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results. Major expenses may be required to establish ore reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current development programs planned by the Company will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Mineral deposits and production costs are affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Competition. The mineral industry is intensely competitive in all its phases. The Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Political Risk. Properties in which the Company has an interest are located in the Amazon basin in Brazil, which may be of particular interest or sensitivity to one or more interest groups. Consequently, mineral exploration and mining activities in those areas may be affected in varying degrees by political uncertainty, expropriations of property and changes in applicable government policies and regulation such as business laws, environmental laws, native land claims entitlements or procedures and mineral rights and mining laws, affecting the Company’s business in that area. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond the control or influence of the Company and may adversely affect its business, or if significant enough, may result in the impairment or loss of mineral concessions or other mineral rights, or may make it impossible to continue its mineral exploration and mining activities in such areas. Potential Dilution to Existing Shareholders. The Company will require additional financing in order to complete full exploration of its mineral properties. The Company anticipates that it will have to sell additional equity securities including, but not limited to, its common stock, share purchase warrants or some form of convertible security. The effect of additional issuances of equity securities will result in dilution to existing shareholders. Limited Market for Common Shares. The liquidity of the common shares of the Company, or ability of the shareholder to buy or sell the Company’s common stock, may be significantly limited for various unforeseeable periods. The average daily volume of the Company’s shares traded on the TSX Venture Exchange during fiscal 2009 was approximately 115,000 shares. The market price of the Company’s shares has historically fluctuated in a large range, as disclosed in “Item 9 - The Offer and Listing”. The price of the Company’s common shares may be affected by many factors, including adverse change in the Company’s business, a decline in gold price and general economic trends. Insurance Coverage. Mineral exploration is subject to risks of human injury, environmental and legal liability and loss of assets. The Company may elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or, in some cases, insurance may not be available for certain risks. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 4 Key Executives. The Company is dependent on the services of key executives, including its Chairman, Mark E. Jones, III, its Director and retired President, Leendert G. Krol, and its Vice President of Exploration, Elton L. S. Pereira. Each of the above individuals has many years of background in the mining industry. The Company may not be able to replace that experience and knowledge with other individuals. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The Company raises its equity in Canadian dollars and its exploration expenditures are generally denominated in United States dollars. As a result, the Company’s expenditures are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations may materially and adversely increase the Company’s operating expenditures and reduce the amount exploration activities that the Company is able to complete with its current capital. The Company does not engage in any hedging or other transactions to protect itself against such currency fluctuations. Enforcement of Judgments against the Company. The Company is incorporated in the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Certain of our directors and officers live in Canada, and many of the Company’s assets are located in Brazil and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of legal process within the United States upon directors and officers who are not United States residents. Also, there is uncertainty as to the enforceability in Canada, in original actions or for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. 