Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business plan to acquire additional exploration prospects, continue exploration activities on its current projects, and, if warranted, undertake development and mining operations is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: Lack of Proven Properties and Insufficient Exploration and Development Funds. At this point, all of the Company’s exploration prospects and property interests (collectively the “Properties”) are gold prospects in Brazil. While the Company has sufficient funds to complete the exploration phase currently underway, additional funds may be necessary in order for the Company to pursue further exploration on its existing properties and to acquire and develop additional exploration prospects. Certain of the Company’s planned expenditures are discretionary and may be increased or decreased based upon funds available to the Company. As of January 31, 2006, the Company had sufficient cash to fund general and administrative expenses anticipated during fiscal 2007. As discussed above, the Company may be required to raise additional capital for additional exploration activity on its existing properties and acquisition of new exploration prospects during fiscal 2007. There can be no assurance that additional funds can be raised. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (hereinafter referred to as “MD & A”). Environmental Laws. The exploration programs conducted by the Company are subject to national, state and/or local regulations regarding environmental considerations in the jurisdiction where they are located. Most operations involving exploration or production activities are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and mining procedures, reclamation, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of stream and fresh water sources, odor, noise, dust, and other environmental protection controls adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as the rights of adjoining property owners. The Company may be required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration or production of minerals may have upon the environment. All requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming, and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. However, at this time, the Company is exploring its Properties and does not 2 anticipate preparing environmental impact statements or assessments until such time as the Company believes one or more of its Properties will prove to be commercially feasible. Limited Exploration Prospects. The Company’s existing properties are all gold prospects in Brazil. Accordingly, the Company does not have a diversified portfolio of exploration prospects either geographically or by mineral targets. The Company’s operations could be significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold, as the economic viability of the Company’s projects is heavily dependent upon the market price of gold. Additionally, the Company’s projects are subject to the laws of Brazil and can be negatively impacted by the existing laws and regulations of that country, as they apply to mineral exploration, land ownership, royalty interests and taxation, and by any potential changes of such laws and regulations. Due to the Company’s exploration activities in Brazil, the Company is also subject to economic risks due to currency fluctuation and foreign exchange controls. Title to Properties. The Company cannot guarantee title to all of its Properties as the Properties may be subject to prior mineral rights applications with priorty, prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. Certain of the mineral rights held by the Company are held under applications for mineral rights and, until final approval of such applications is received, the Company’s rights to such mineral rights may not materialize and the exact boundaries of the Company’s properties may be subject to adjustment. The Company does not maintain title insurance on its properties. Limited Market for Common Shares. The liquidity of the common shares of the Company, or ability of the shareholder to buy or sell the Company’s common stock, may be significantly limited for various unforeseeable periods. The average daily volume of the Company’s shares traded on the TSX Venture Exchange during fiscal 2006 was under 65,000 shares. The market price of the Company’s shares has historically fluctuated in a large range, as disclosed in Item 5 — Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters on page 6. The price of the Company’s common shares may be affected by many factors, including adverse change in the Company’s business, a decline in gold price and general economic trends. Insurance Coverage. Mineral exploration is subject to risks of human injury, environmental and legal liability and loss of assets. The Company may elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or, in some cases, insurance may not be available for certain risks. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Key Executives. The Company is dependent on the services of key executives, including its Chairman, Mark E. Jones, III, its Director and retired President, Leendert G. Krol, and its Vice President of Exploration, Stephen Zahony. All of the above individuals have many years of background in the mining industry. The Company may not be able to replace that experience and knowledge with other individuals. Enforcement of Judgements against the Company. The Company is incorporated in the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Certain of our directors and officers live in Canada, and most of our assets are located in Brazil and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of legal process within the United States upon directors and officers who are not United States residents. Also, there is uncertainty as to the enforceability in Canada, in original actions or for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Form 10-K under “Item 1. Business”, “Item 2. Properties”, “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, and “Item 7. MD & A” and other factors may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or 3 implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions; competition; success of operating initiatives; the success of the Company’s exploration and development operations on its Properties; the Company’s ability to raise capital and the terms thereof; the acquisition of additional properties; the continuity, experience and quality of the Company’s management; changes in or failure to comply with government regulations or the lack of government authorization to continue the Company’s projects; and other factors referenced in this Form 10-K. The use in this Form 10-K of such words as “believes”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. The success of the Company is dependent on the efforts of the Company, its employees and many other factors including, primarily, its ability to raise additional capital and establishing the economic viability of its exploration Properties. 