ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We will be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations, continue the development of our product candidates and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Negative cash flows from our operations are expected to continue over at least the next several years. Our cash utilization amount is highly dependent on the progress of our product development programs, particularly, the results of our preclinical and clinical studies and those of our partners, the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory approval for our product candidates, the terms and conditions of our contracts with service providers for these programs, and the rate of recruitment of 17 Table of Contents patients in our human clinical trials. In addition, the further development of our ongoing clinical trials will depend on upcoming analysis and results of those studies and our financial resources at that time. We are aggressively pursuing forms of capital infusion including public or private financing, strategic partnerships or other arrangements with organizations that have capabilities and/or products that are complementary to our own capabilities and/or products, in order to continue the development of our product candidates. However, there can be no assurances that we will complete any financings strategic alliances or collaborative development agreements, and the terms of such arrangements may not be advantageous to us. After our recent financing in February 2014 and subsequent exercises of warrants to purchase our common stock, we expect our existing cash and cash equivalents to support our operations through at least the end of 2015. We expect this level of cash utilization to allow us to continue our ongoing programs, including wrap up costs of completing the GOG 186I trial, initial startup costs of planning for a pivotal Phase 3 study in ZYBRESTAT® for the treatment of advanced relapsed ovarian cancer, initiation of a Phase 2 clinical trial of ZYBRESTAT® in patients with recurrent GI-NETs with elevated biomarkers and, if we finalize an agreement with a non-profit collaborator, to initiate and share in the costs of a Phase 1b/2 trial of ZYBRESTAT® in relapsed ovarian cancer in combination with Votrient®. Any significant further development of ZYBRESTAT® such as conducting pivotal Phase 3 studies in ovarian cancer or other capital intensive activities will be contingent upon our ability to raise additional capital in addition to our existing financing arrangements. Our ongoing capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress and results of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates under development; the costs of complying with FDA and other regulatory agency requirements, the progress of our research and development programs and those of our partners; the time and costs expended and required to obtain any necessary or desired regulatory approvals; our ability to enter into licensing arrangements, including any unanticipated licensing arrangements that may be necessary to enable us to continue our development and clinical trial programs; the costs and expenses of filing, prosecuting and, if necessary, enforcing our patent claims, or defending against possible claims of infringement by third-party patent or other technology rights; the cost of commercialization activities and arrangements, if any, undertaken by us; and, if and when approved, the demand for our products, which demand depends in turn on circumstances and uncertainties that cannot be fully known, understood or quantified unless and until the time of approval, including the range of indications for which any product is granted approval. While we potentially have access to certain amounts of financing through an agreement with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC and through an At Market Issuance Sales Arrangement, which we refer to as the ATM, with MLV & Co. LLC, these arrangements alone will not be sufficient to fund a late-stage clinical trial of ZYBRESTAT® in any indication. We do not have the ability to direct Lincoln Park Capital to purchase any of our common stock if we fail to maintain a minimum stock price of $6.00 (adjusted for stock splits). Under the ATM, the total dollar amount of common stock that we could sell under our current registration statement during the next twelve months, as of March 17, 2014, is approximately $264,000. However, we are restricted by the terms of the securities purchase agreements that we entered into during 2013 and 2014 from making sales under this agreement until November 2014. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we will not be able to continue development of our product candidates or we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs or cease operations. We may seek to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic partnerships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing, whether through the ATM, the Lincoln Park Capital arrangement or otherwise, may be dilutive to our current stockholders and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we raise funds through collaborative or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that are not favorable to us, rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize. Our failure to raise capital when needed will materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to raise additional capital could also be impaired if our common shares lose their status on The NASDAQ Capital Market. 18 Table of Contents Due in part to our limited financial resources, we may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates or those that are in-licensed, and/or we may be unable to pursue the clinical trials that we would like to pursue. We have limited technical, managerial and financial resources to determine the indications on which we should focus the development efforts related to our product candidates. Due to our limited available financial resources, we have curtailed clinical development programs and activities that might otherwise have led to more rapid progress of our product candidates through the regulatory and development processes. We may make incorrect determinations with regard to the indications and clinical trials on which to focus the available resources that we do have. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain adequate staffing levels to run our operations and/or to accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish. We or our partners currently are pursuing clinical trials in various indications, but we are required by our financial resources to engage only in limited clinical activities. The decisions to allocate our research, management and financial resources toward particular indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also cause us to miss valuable opportunities. In addition, from time to time, we may in-license or otherwise acquire product candidates to supplement our internal development activities. Those activities may use resources that otherwise would have been devoted to our internal programs. We cannot assure you that any resources that we devote to acquired or in-licensed programs will result in any products that are superior to our internally developed products. If we are unable to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to market and sell our product candidates. Our product candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing, oversight of clinical investigators, recordkeeping and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review and approval process are required to be successfully completed in the United States, in the EU and in many other foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA or EMA is unpredictable and often exceeds five years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the product candidate. In connection with the clinical development of our product candidates, we face risks that: Ÿ the product candidate may not prove to be safe and efficacious; Ÿ patients may die or suffer serious adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested; Ÿ we fail to maintain adequate records of observations and data from our clinical trials, to establish and maintain sufficient procedures to oversee, collect data from, and manage clinical trials, or to monitor clinical trial sites and investigators to the satisfaction of the FDA, EMA or other regulatory agencies; Ÿ we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete the clinical trials that would be necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; Ÿ the results of later-phase clinical trials may not confirm the results of earlier clinical trials; and Ÿ the results from clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical benefit-to-risk ratio required by the FDA, EMA or other regulatory agencies for marketing approval. Only a small percentage of product candidates for which clinical trials are initiated are the subject of NDAs and even fewer receive approval for commercialization. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a product candidate, any such approval may be subject to limitations such as those on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. 19 Table of Contents In particular, we may pursue a filing for a marketing authorization, or MAA, in the EU with ZYBRESTAT® for the treatment of ATC under exceptional circumstances. As part of this process, we solicited and received feedback from the SAWP of the EMA, in July 2013, and from two of the SAWP reviewing countries in March 2013 and two more in February 2014, regarding the data that would be deemed necessary to support an MAA filing in Europe under exceptional circumstances. We intend to address and incorporate this feedback into our potential MAA filing using existing data from previous completed clinical trials of ZYBRESTAT®. We cannot, however, assure you that this process will result in our receipt of approval from the EMA to market ZYBRESTAT® for the treatment of ATC. The EMA could require us to conduct one or more additional clinical trials involving patients with ATC or to conduct other studies or analysis in order to obtain approval. We do not currently believe that it would be practicable from a financial standpoint for us to conduct an additional clinical trial in this indication, given the very significant expense of locating patients with this ultra-rare disease and extremely rapid progression of the disease following diagnosis. In the event that additional clinical trials or other studies were to be required by the EMA as a condition of approval, we would likely elect to discontinue the efforts to obtain a marketing authorization for ZYBRESTAT® in ATC in the EU. If we or the third parties on which we rely for the conduct of our clinical trials and results do not perform our clinical trial activities in accordance with good clinical practices and related regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We use independent clinical investigators and, in many cases, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct and/or oversee the clinical trials of our product candidates and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the FDA’s requirements and our general investigational plan and protocol. Currently our only clinical trial activities involving ZYBRESTAT® are being conducted by physician clinical investigators who are independent of us, but with whom we have agreements for them to provide the results of their clinical trials to us. In order for us to rely on data from these ongoing studies in support of a marketing application, or NDA, for approval of any of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the independent investigators are required to comply with FDA requirements applicable to their studies. The FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities require us and our clinical investigators to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the respective trial plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates or result in enforcement action against us. In February 2012, we were inspected by the FDA, and in March 2012, we received a Form FDA 483 containing observations from that inspection. The Form FDA 483 noted observations of certain deficiencies in the conduct of our FACT trial in ATC, which was conducted from July 2007 – February 2010. These observations related to the FDA’s good clinical practice requirements and included the failure to insure proper monitoring of third-party clinical investigators who were participants in our FACT trial, the failure to promptly bring non-compliant clinical investigators into compliance, and also found that some of the clinical trial monitors selected by our clinical research organizations, or CROs, outside the United States were not sufficiently qualified by experience and training to monitor clinical trials. The Form FDA 483 also included observations related to the failure to address the improper storage of a drug that was being used in the trial, and the failure to maintain records and case histories in compliance with FDA regulations. The issues noted in the Form FDA 483 had previously been identified and addressed by our management as part of an internal review of our systems, practices and procedures governing the areas of vendor oversight, quality, and regulatory compliance and were initially disclosed by us in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. Our response to the Form FDA 483 describes the corrective actions that we have taken and will continue to take in response to 20 Table of Contents this matter. On February 10, 2014, we received correspondence from the FDA informing us that we appear to have taken corrective action to prevent the recurrence of the conditions that led to the issuance of the Form FDA 483 and that the related inspection is now closed. While we have taken and continue to take steps to strengthen our procedures in order to ensure that these issues will not recur in any future clinical trials sponsored by us for any of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that the FDA will be satisfied with our procedures, that the FDA will not issue a warning letter or take other enforcement action against us, or that similar issues will not recur in the future. We also cannot assure you that the Form FDA 483 will not adversely affect our potential application to the EMA for an MAA for ZYBRESTAT® for the treatment of ATC. In addition, the steps we take to strengthen our procedures and conduct future clinical trials necessary for approval will be time-consuming and expensive. As we evolve from a company that is primarily involved in clinical development to a company that is also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in expanding our operations successfully. As we advance our product candidates through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with such third parties, as well as additional collaborators, distributors, marketers and suppliers. Maintaining third party relationships for these purposes will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management and other personnel. We must be able to: manage our development efforts effectively; manage our participation in the clinical trials in which our product candidates are involved effectively; and improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing or distribution services, any product revenues that we receive, or the profitability of these product revenues to us, are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our products or in doing so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our products. We have no manufacturing capacity and have relied on, and expect to continue to rely on, third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of our product candidates or any of the compounds that we are testing in our preclinical programs, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to do so. As a result, we currently rely, and we expect to rely for the foreseeable future, on third-party manufacturers to supply our product candidates. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured our product candidates or products ourselves, including: Ÿ reliance on third-parties for manufacturing process development, regulatory compliance and quality assurance; Ÿ limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of third-parties; Ÿ the possible breach of manufacturing agreements by third-parties because of factors beyond our control; and Ÿ the possible termination or non-renewal of the manufacturing agreements by the third-party, at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us. 21 Table of Contents If we do not maintain our developed important manufacturing relationships, we may fail to find replacement manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities, which could delay or impair our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products and substantially increase our costs or deplete profit margins, if any. If we do find replacement manufacturers, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable to us, and there could be a substantial delay before new facilities could be qualified and registered with the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities. The FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and corresponding foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. Contract manufacturers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing drug substance production and shipment delays or a situation where the contractor may not be able to maintain compliance with the applicable cGMP requirements. Any failure to comply with cGMP requirements or other FDA, EMA and comparable foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to develop our product candidates and market our products after approval. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop our product candidates and commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval on a timely basis. Our product candidates have not completed clinical trials, and may never demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in order to do so. Our product candidates are in the clinical stage of development. In order to achieve profitable operations, we alone or in collaboration with others, must successfully develop, manufacture, introduce and market our products. The time frame necessary to achieve market success for any individual product is long and uncertain. The products currently under development by us may require significant additional research and development and additional preclinical and clinical testing prior to application for commercial use. Although we are pursuing a filing an MAA with the EMA to market and sell ZYBRESTAT®, we cannot assure you that the EMA will approve this application without the need for further clinical trials or other studies, which may be prohibitively expensive. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in early or later-stage studies or clinical trials. Although we have obtained some favorable results to-date in preclinical studies and clinical trials of certain of our potential products, such results may not be indicative of results that will ultimately be obtained in or throughout such clinical trials, and clinical trials may not show any of our products to be safe or capable of producing a desired result. Additionally, we may encounter problems in our clinical trials that may cause us to delay, suspend or terminate those clinical trials. Our product candidates have been tested in over 400 patients to date, and adverse events associated with ZYBRESTAT® and OXi4503 have been found to be mainly low grade, reversible, transient and manageable. However, we will be required to continue to test and evaluate the safety of our product candidates in additional clinical trials, and to demonstrate their safety to the satisfaction of appropriate regulatory agencies, as a condition to receipt of any regulatory approvals. In clinical trials to date, transient mild to moderate hypertension believed to be associated with ZYBRESTAT® has been effectively managed through pre-treatment with antihypertensive medication. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to make the necessary demonstrations of safety to allow us to receive regulatory approval for our product candidates in any indication. If we proceed with the filing of an MAA in the European Union for ZYBRESTAT in the treatment of ATC, we would need to undertake commercial scale manufacturing activities at significant expense to us in order to proceed with the application for approval for commercialization. We or our external vendors may encounter technical difficulties that preclude us from successfully manufacturing the required registration and validation batches of active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and/or drug product and we may be unable to recover any financial losses associated with the manufacturing activities. Further, our research or product development efforts may not be successfully completed, any compounds currently under development by us may not be successfully 22 Table of Contents developed into drugs, any potential products may not receive regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, and competitors may develop and bring to market products or technologies that render our potential products obsolete. If any of these problems occur, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We only have a limited number of employees to manage and operate our business. As of March 17, 2014, we had a total of nine full-time employees and one employee working on a part-time basis. Our focus on reducing cash utilization requires us to manage and operate our business in a highly efficient manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain adequate staffing levels to run our operations and/or to accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish. We have a history of losses, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future. We have experienced net losses every year since our inception and, as of December 31, 2013, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $238,508,000. We anticipate continuing to incur substantial additional losses over at least the next several years due to, among other factors, our continuing clinical trials and development activities with respect to our VDA drug candidates, technologies, and anticipated research and development activities and the general and administrative expenses associated with those activities. We have not yet commercialized any product candidates. Our ability to attain profitability will depend upon our ability to develop and commercialize products that are effective and commercially viable, to obtain regulatory approval for the manufacture and sale of our products and to license or otherwise market our products successfully. We may never achieve profitability, and even if we do, we may not be able to sustain being profitable. We depend heavily on our executive officers, directors, and principal consultants and the loss of their services would materially harm our business. We believe that our success depends, and will likely continue to depend, upon our ability to retain the services of our current executive officers, directors, principal consultants and others. The loss of the services of any of these individuals would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we have established relationships with universities, hospitals and research institutions, which have historically provided, and continue to provide, us with access to research laboratories, clinical trials, facilities and patients. Additionally, we believe that we may, at any time and from time to time, materially depend on the services of consultants and other unaffiliated third parties. We cannot assure you that consultants and other unaffiliated third parties will provide the level of service to us that we require in order to achieve our business objectives. Our industry is highly competitive, and our product candidates may become obsolete. We are engaged in a rapidly evolving field. Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions is intense and likely to increase. Many of those companies and institutions have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Those companies and institutions also have substantially greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we do. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. We are aware of at least three other companies that currently have a clinical-stage VDA for use in an oncology indication. Some of these competitive products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired therapeutic effect than products being developed by us. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and/or cost competitive than those we are developing, or that would render our product candidates less competitive or even obsolete. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we do, which could materially adversely affect us. We have licensed in rights to ZYBRESTAT®, OXi4503 and other programs from third parties. If our license agreements terminate or expire, we may lose the licensed rights to our product candidates, including ZYBRESTAT® and OXi4503, and we may not be able to continue to develop them or, if they are approved, market or commercialize them. 23 Table of Contents We depend on license agreements with third-parties for certain intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates, including patent rights. Currently, we have licensed in patent rights from Arizona State University, or ASU, and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for ZYBRESTAT® and OXi4503 and from Baylor University and Angiogene Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for other programs. In general, our license agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations in order to keep these agreements in effect and retain our rights under them. These payment obligations can include upfront fees, maintenance fees, milestones, royalties, patent prosecution expenses, and other fees. These performance obligations typically include diligence obligations. If we fail to pay, be diligent or otherwise perform as required under our license agreements, we could lose the rights under the patents and other intellectual property rights covered by the agreements. While we are not currently aware of any dispute with any licensors under our material agreements with them, if disputes arise under any of our in-licenses, including our in-licenses from ASU, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Baylor University and Angiogene Pharmaceuticals Ltd., we could lose our rights under these agreements. Any such dispute may not be resolvable on favorable terms, or at all. Whether or not any disputes of this kind are favorably resolved, our management’s time and attention and our other resources could be consumed by the need to attend to and seek to resolve these disputes and our business could be harmed by the emergence of such a dispute. If we lose our rights under these agreements, we may not be able to conduct any further activities with the product candidate or program that the license covered. If this were to happen, we might not be able to develop our product candidates further, or following regulatory approval, if any, we might be prohibited from marketing or commercializing them. In particular, patents previously licensed to us might after termination be used to stop us from conducting these activities. We depend extensively on our patents and proprietary technology, and we must protect those assets in order to preserve our business. Although we expect to seek patent protection for any compounds we discover and/or for any specific use we discover for new or previously known compounds, any or all of them may not be subject to effective patent protection. Further, the development of regimens for the administration of pharmaceuticals, which generally involve specifications for the frequency, timing and amount of dosages, has been, and we believe, may continue to be, important to our effort, although those processes, as such, may not be patentable. In addition, the issued patents may be declared invalid or our competitors may find ways to avoid the claims in the patents. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, protect our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. As of March 17, 2014, we were the exclusive licensee, sole assignee or co-assignee of twenty-nine (29) granted United States patents, seven (7) pending United States patent applications, two (2) pending Patent Cooperation Treaty international patent applications and granted patents and/or pending applications in several other major markets, including the European Union, Canada and Japan. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms like us is generally highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, resulting in both an apparent inconsistency regarding the breadth of claims allowed in United States patents and general uncertainty as to their legal interpretation and enforceability. Accordingly, patent applications assigned or exclusively licensed to us may not result in patents being issued, any issued patents assigned or exclusively licensed to us may not provide us with competitive protection or may be challenged by others, and the current or future granted patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business and achieve profitability. Moreover, because some of the basic research relating to one or more of our patent applications and/or patents were performed at various universities and/or funded by grants, one or more universities, employees of such universities and/or grantors could assert that they have certain rights in such research and any resulting products. Further, others may independently develop similar products, may duplicate our products, or may design around our patent rights. In addition, as a result of the assertion of rights by a third-party or otherwise, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others in or outside of the United States. Any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in product market introductions while our attempts to design around such patents or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. In addition, we could incur 24 Table of Contents substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us or in connection with patents to which we hold licenses or in bringing suit to protect our own patents against infringement. We require employees and the institutions that perform our preclinical and clinical trials to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. Those agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to a party to any such agreement during the course of the relationship with us be kept confidential and not be disclosed to third-parties, except in specific circumstances. Any such agreement may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Our products may result in product liability exposure, and it is uncertain whether our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all claims. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and for commercial applications, if any, may expose us to liability claims, in the event such product candidates cause injury or disease, or result in adverse effects. These claims could be made directly by health care institutions, contract laboratories, patients or others using such products. Although we have obtained liability insurance coverage for our ongoing clinical trials, this coverage may not be in amounts sufficient to protect us from any product liability claims or product recalls which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. Further, adverse product and similar liability claims could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our technology and product candidates under development. If clinical trials or regulatory approval processes for our product candidates are prolonged, delayed or suspended, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our other ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular product candidate: Ÿ conditions imposed on us by the FDA, EMA or another foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; Ÿ delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; Ÿ insufficient supply of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct and complete our clinical trials; Ÿ slow enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials; Ÿ any compliance audits and pre-approval inspections by the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities; Ÿ negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results; Ÿ serious and unexpected drug-related side effects; and Ÿ failure of our third-party contractors to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us. Commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed by the imposition of additional conditions on our clinical trials by the FDA, EMA or another foreign regulatory authority or the requirement of additional supportive studies by the FDA, EMA or another foreign regulatory authority. In addition, clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the conduct of other clinical trials that compete for the same patients as our clinical trials, and the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the 25 Table of Contents completion of the clinical trial beyond our expectations. In addition, the FDA and EMA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than we have projected for any of our product candidates. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of our clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured, or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our product candidates, and our financial resources may be insufficient to fund any incremental costs. In addition, if our clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do and the commercial viability of our product candidates could be limited. Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, EMA and other applicable domestic and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any approved product, manufacturer, or manufacturing process are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: Ÿ restrictions on the products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes; Ÿ warning letters; Ÿ civil or criminal penalties; Ÿ fines; Ÿ injunctions; Ÿ product seizures or detentions; Ÿ pressure to initiate voluntary product recalls; Ÿ suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; and Ÿ refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. If physicians and patients do not accept our future products or if the market for indications for which any product candidate is approved is smaller than expected, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if any of our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and third-party payers. Physicians may decide not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: Ÿ timing of market introduction of competitive products; Ÿ demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; Ÿ cost-effectiveness; Ÿ limited or no coverage by third-party payers; Ÿ convenience and ease of administration; Ÿ prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; 26 Table of Contents Ÿ restrictions in the label of the drug; Ÿ other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and Ÿ ineffective marketing and distribution support of our products. If any of our product candidates are approved, but fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. The uncertainty associated with pharmaceutical reimbursement and related matters may adversely affect our business. Market acceptance and sales of any one or more of our product candidates that we develop will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Government authorities and third-party payers, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will cover and establish payment levels. We cannot be certain that reimbursement will be available for any product candidates that we develop. Also, we cannot be certain that reimbursement policies will not reduce the demand for, or the price paid for, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available on a limited basis, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidates that we develop. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation established Medicare Part D, which expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drug purchases by the elderly but provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. The MMA also introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for physician-administered drugs. The United States and several foreign jurisdictions are considering, or have already enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access to healthcare. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of any products that we develop due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, ACA, became law in the U.S. The goal of ACA is to reduce the cost of health care and substantially change the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically, the ACA may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of, and the price we may charge for, any products we develop that receive regulatory approval. We also cannot predict the impact of ACA on us as many of the ACA reforms require the promulgation of detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions, which have not yet been fully implemented. Our facility with Lincoln Park Capital will not be sufficient to satisfy our capital requirements for all of our contemplated clinical trials. In November 2011, we entered into a purchase agreement for the sale, from time to time, of up to $20,000,000 of our common stock to Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC, or LPC, a Chicago-based institutional investor. We do not have the ability to sell shares under this arrangement if we fail to maintain a minimum stock price of $6.00 or if we fail to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If our stock price rises above $6.00 and the other conditions of the arrangement are met, we may direct LPC to purchase up to $20,000,000 worth of shares of our common stock under our agreement 27 Table of Contents over a 36-month period, in amounts of up to $200,000, which amounts may be increased under certain circumstances. The price of our common stock as of March 17, 2014 was $4.26 and therefore the facility is not available to us at this time and may not be available when needed, or at all, depending on the market price of our common stock. The extent to which we rely on LPC as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from LPC were to prove impracticable or prohibitively dilutive, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we sell the maximum amount we are eligible to sell to LPC under the purchase agreement, we will still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our facility with MLV will not be sufficient to satisfy our capital requirements for all of our contemplated clinical trials. On July 21, 2010, we entered into an “at the market” equity offering sales agreement, or ATM Agreement, with MLV & Co. LLC (MLV), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock from time to time through MLV acting as our sales agent and underwriter. Sales of our common stock through MLV are made on the principal trading market of our common stock by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions at market prices, in block transactions or as otherwise agreed by MLV and us. MLV uses its commercially reasonable efforts to sell our common stock from time to time, based upon our instructions (including any price, time or size limits we may impose). We pay MLV a commission rate of up to 7.0% of the gross sales price per share of any common stock sold through MLV as agent under the ATM Agreement. As of March 17, 2014, the total dollar amount of common stock that we could sell under the ATM Agreement, during the next twelve months is approximately $264,000 under our current registration statement. However, we are restricted by the terms of the securities purchase agreements that we entered into during 2013 and 2014 from making sales under this agreement until November 2014. The funding available from MLV may not be available when needed, or at all, depending on the market price of our common stock. The extent to which we rely on MLV as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from MLV were to prove impracticable or prohibitively dilutive, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we sell the maximum amount we are eligible to sell to MLV under the purchase agreement, we will still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our stockholder rights agreement and Delaware law could deter a change of our management which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated by-laws, could discourage or make it more difficult to accomplish a proxy contest or other change in our management or the acquisition of control by a holder of a substantial amount of our voting stock. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish, or could deter, transactions that stockholders may otherwise consider to be in their best interests or our best interests. Further, the rights issued under the stockholder rights agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. The price of our common stock is volatile, and is likely to continue to fluctuate due to reasons beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has been, and likely will continue to be, highly volatile. Factors, including our financial results or our competitors’ financial results, clinical trial and research development 28 Table of Contents announcements and government regulatory action affecting our potential products in both the United States and foreign countries, have had, and may continue to have, a significant effect on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that an investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. One or more of these factors could significantly harm our business and cause a decline in the price of our common stock in the public market. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants have been registered for resale or are available for sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may be sold from time to time. Such sales, as well as future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders, or the perception that sales may occur at any time, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The low trading volume of our common stock may adversely affect the price of our shares. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock has historically experienced low trading volume. Limited trading volume may subject our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for investors to sell shares at a price that is attractive to them. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot maintain effective controls and reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. For example, during the third quarter of 2013, our management determined that we had a material weakness related to the operation of our controls over financial reporting primarily associated with a complex non-routine financing transaction in the second quarter of 2013. We continue to work on improvements to our internal controls over financial reporting and there can be no assurance that this or another material weakness will not occur in the future. Any failure to implement and maintain controls over our financial reporting or difficulties encountered in the implementation of improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to improve our internal controls over financial reporting or to address identified weaknesses in the future, if they were to occur, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 