Risk Factors and cautionary statements contained in this Annual Report. Further, the Company operates in an industry sector where securities values may be volatile and may be influenced by regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I 2 1. BUSINESS 2 INTRODUCTION 2 TECHNOLOGY OVERVIEW 5 CLINICAL TRIAL PROGRAM 6 REGULATORY MATTERS 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS 16 PATENTS AND TRADE SECRETS 17 COMPETITION 20 EMPLOYEES 20 GLOSSARY OF SCIENTIFIC TERMS 23 1A. RISK FACTORS 23 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 30 2. PROPERTIES 30 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 30 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 30 PART II 31 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 31 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 32 SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION 32 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 33 OVERVIEW 33 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 37 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 39 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 40 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 41 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 41 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 41 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 43 PART III 43 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 43 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 43 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 43 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 43 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 43 PART IV 43 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 43 EX-10.29 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement EX-10.30 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement EX-10.31 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement EX-23 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP. EX-31.1 Certification of CEO EX-31.2 Certification of CFO EX-32 Certification of CEO & CFO pursuant to Section 906 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION OXiGENE, Inc. (“OXiGENE” or the “Company”) is a biopharmaceutical company developing novel small-molecule therapeutics to treat cancer and certain eye diseases. The Company’s focus is the development and commercialization of drug candidates that selectively disrupt abnormal blood vessels associated with solid tumor progression and visual impairment. Currently, OXiGENE has two therapeutic product candidates in various stages of clinical and preclinical development, as well as a pipeline of additional product candidates currently in research and development. The Company’s lead clinical compound is Combretastatin A4P (CA4P), which is being evaluated in multiple ongoing clinical trials in various oncology and ophthalmic indications, including one Phase III and four Phase II clinical trials. Development Programs and Product Candidates OXiGENE’s primary drug development programs are based on a series of natural products called Combretastatins, which were originally isolated from the African bush willow tree (Combretum caffrum) by researchers at Arizona State University, or ASU. ASU has granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license with respect to the commercial rights to particular Combretastatins. Through in vitro and in vivo testing, it has been established that certain Combretastatins selectively disrupt the function of newly formed abnormal blood vessels associated with solid cancers and have a similar effect on abnormal blood vessels associated with certain diseases of the eye. OXiGENE has developed two distinct technologies that are based on Combretastatins. The Company refers to the first technology as vascular disrupting agents, or VDAs. OXiGENE is currently developing VDAs for indications in both oncology and ophthalmology. The Company refers to the second technology as ortho-quinone prodrugs, or OQPs. OXiGENE is currently developing OQPs for indications in oncology. Vascular Disrupting Agents, or VDAs OXiGENE’s most clinically advanced VDA is CA4P, which is being evaluated in multiple ongoing clinical trials in both oncology and ophthalmology, both as a single-agent and in combination with other therapies, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy, antibody therapy and anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) therapy. CA4P is an inactive synthetic derivative of the natural product CA4, which becomes activated following entry into the blood stream, and then targets and damages newly formed, abnormal blood vessels. Preclinical studies show that CA4P works via two potentially synergistic processes and that it can have dramatic effects on the shape and structural integrity of newly formed vascular endothelial cells. Vascular endothelial cells are the flat and elongated cells that form the walls of blood vessels. As these endothelial cells grow and divide, new blood vessels are formed. In vitro studies have demonstrated that CA4P acts on a protein called tubulin inside the newly formed and growing endothelial cells. By binding to the tubulin, CA4P is able to collapse the structural framework that maintains the cells’ flat shape. When this occurs, the shape of the cells changes from flat to round, initiating a cascade of events resulting in physical blockage of the blood vessels. Preclinical research, published in the November 2005 issue of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, showed that CA4P also disrupts the molecular engagement of VE-cadherin, a junction protein important for endothelial cell survival and function. The authors of the research article conclude that this effect only occurs in endothelial cells which lack contact with smooth muscle cells, a known feature of abnormal vasculature associated with tumors and other disease processes. The disengagement of VE-cadherin leads to endothelial cell detachment, which in turn, can cause permanent physical blockage of vessels. These two complementary mechanisms can block the flow of blood to a tumor and deprive it of oxygen and nutrients essential to its survival. 2 Table of Contents Normal healthy tissues in the body have few actively growing endothelial cells. These normal, blood vessel endothelial cells have matured and do not depend solely on tubulin for maintenance of their cell shape, and thus are not affected by CA4P. CA4P and Its Application in Oncology OXiGENE’s CA4P targets newly formed abnormal blood vessels that penetrate and provide nutritive support to the inner areas of a tumor, regions that are widely believed to contain tumor cells that are difficult to treat with conventional cancer therapies, such as chemotherapy and radiation, as well as antibody and protein-based therapeutics. The resulting shutdown in blood flow then deprives tumor cells of oxygen and nutrients necessary for maintenance and growth and also prevents tumor cells from being able to excrete toxic metabolic waste products. The consequence of the blockage is extensive tumor cell death, as demonstrated in animal studies. VDAs are distinguishable from anti-angiogenesis agents, which attempt to prevent the formation of new tumor blood vessels, in that VDAs directly target the blood vessels that have already formed within tumors. OXiGENE believes that anti-angiogenesis products may prevent the continued growth of tumors but may not directly result in the death of existing cancer cells. In contrast, OXiGENE’s preclinical studies have shown that VDAs rapidly reduce blood flow within the tumor, thereby causing rapid and extensive tumor cell death. Moreover, because VDAs affect the central regions of the tumor, they may have the potential to enhance the effectiveness of currently available cancer therapies. In the field of oncology, six clinical trials evaluating CA4P for the treatment of advanced solid tumor cancers have been completed and more than 250 patients have been dosed with CA4P, either as a monotherapy or in combination with other cancer-fighting treatments. OXiGENE believes the safety profile of CA4P to be tolerable and manageable. CA4P is being studied in nine clinical trials in oncology that are open or will soon be open for patient enrollment as outlined below: • A Phase III clinical trial in patients with advanced, inoperable Stage IIIb/ IV non small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, in combination with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. This trial has received regulatory clearance from the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, in the United Kingdom, but has not yet initiated patient enrollment; • A randomized Phase II clinical trial in patients with unresectable Stage IIIa/ IIIb NSCLC in combination with concurrent chemoradiotherapy—a widely accepted standard of treatment for NSCLC in the United States. The trial will be conducted under OXiGENE’s Investigational New Drug, or IND, application on file with the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA; • A Phase II clinical trial in patients with advanced, inoperable, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel; • A Phase Ib clinical trial in patients with advanced solid tumors in combination with the anti-angiogenic drug, Avastin® (Bevacizumab), which has not yet initiated patient enrollment; • A Phase I/ II clinical trial in patients with advanced NSCLC, head & neck or prostate cancers in combination with radiotherapy; • A Phase I clinical trial in patients with advanced and recurring cervical cancer in combination with cisplatin; • A Phase I/ II clinical trial in patients with advanced colorectal cancer in combination with the anti-CEA monoclonal antibody A5B7; • A Phase II clinical trial in patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer as a monotherapy; and • A Phase I/ II clinical trial in patients with newly diagnosed anaplastic thyroid cancer in combination with doxorubicin, cisplatin and radiotherapy. 3 Table of Contents CA4P and Its Application in Ophthalmology Based on promising clinical results and OXiGENE’s understanding of the safety profile of CA4P gleaned from our ongoing oncology studies, the Company broadened its clinical development efforts of CA4P into the field of ophthalmology. In certain ophthalmologic conditions, VDAs attack the network of abnormally formed existing and emerging blood vessels which have infiltrated the back of the eye and which may leak and cause severe visual impairment. In November 2004, the Company initiated a Phase II clinical study of CA4P in a condition known as myopic macular degeneration, or MMD, under an IND application, which we submitted to the FDA. We are currently enrolling patients into this trial and expect patient accrual to be completed in the first half of 2006. MMD is a progressive eye disease that can lead to legal blindness and is characterized by blurring of the central vision and distortion of certain shapes and images, which cannot be corrected by prescription eye glasses or contact lenses. The disease initially begins with the progressive elongation of the eye; it is not known whether the degenerative changes are the result of this elongation or other hereditary factors. Visual loss may be severe and may occur due to the degenerative changes or the occurrence of abnormal new vessels growing up through defects in the abnormal retina. The abnormal blood vessels grow from the choroid and infiltrate the retina, causing hemorrhaging and scarring, often resulting in central visual loss. Once this process, known as choroidal neovascularization, occurs and active blood vessel leakage in the eye is present, the disease is then considered myopic macular degeneration. The Company is investigating and developing product formulations of CA4P for local and other non-systemic methods of administering the compound for certain ophthalmic indications. We are analyzing data collected from these preclinical experiments completed at the end of 2005, and we expect to advance into a preclinical toxicology program to enable the filing of an IND in 2007. In addition to CA4P, OXiGENE is developing additional VDAs, as well as other compounds that exhibit VDA-like activities, but are not Combretastatins, including OXi6197 and OXi8007. Researchers at Baylor University designed and synthesized each of these compounds, and the Company has been granted exclusive rights to these compounds. Ortho-Quinone Prodrugs, or OQPs OQPs exhibit not only the vascular disrupting properties characteristic of the Company’s lead vascular disrupting agent CA4P, but may also kill tumor cells directly. Preclinical research with OXi4503, OXiGENE’s first OQP candidate, suggests that it not only shuts down blood flow, but can then be metabolized into a compound which kills the remaining tumor cells at the periphery of the tumor. In December 2004, the United Kingdom regulatory authorities accepted an application from our collaborators, Cancer Research UK, to initiate a dose-escalating Phase I clinical trial of OXi4503 in patients with advanced cancer. This trial is currently ongoing. General The Company is a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 1988 in the state of New York and reincorporated in 1992 in the state of Delaware, with its corporate office in the United States at 230 Third Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451 (telephone: 781-547-5900; fax: 781-547-6800). We also have an office in the United Kingdom at Magdalen Centre, Robert Robinson Avenue, The Oxford Science Park, Oxford, OX4 4GA. The Company’s Internet address is www.OXiGENE.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 4 Table of Contents TECHNOLOGY OVERVIEW According to Cancer Research UK, a cancer organization in the United Kingdom, nearly 90% of all cancers, more than 200 types, are solid tumors, which are dependent on a continually developing vascular supply for their growth and survival. This naïve vasculature is the focal point of OXiGENE’s research and development program. The Company’s clinical candidates appear to disrupt the function of newly formed abnormal blood vessels that are associated with solid tumors and vision impairment in certain eye diseases, such as myopic macular degeneration (MMD), age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and diabetic retinopathy. OXiGENE is researching and developing two separate, but related, classes of compounds. The first class of compounds, termed Vascular Disrupting Agents, or VDAs, departs significantly from current approaches to treating cancer. Despite advances in surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, serious problems with these conventional treatments persist: many solid tumors remain incurable, especially when the tumor has metastasized or is a large mass at the time of diagnosis; surgery may not be capable of treating certain tumors because of their location; and chemotherapy and radiation may not be effective in attacking the tissue core of the tumor. In addition, chemotherapy and radiation treatments may damage healthy cells along with cancerous cells, resulting in serious side effects for patients and, in many instances, can induce drug resistance in the tumor. Therefore, a need exists for novel and highly targeted approaches to fighting cancer. Anti-tumor VDAs are the focus of much scientific research. VDAs attack a tumor’s life support system, the network of existing and emerging blood vessels, and selectively disrupt the existing blood vessel structures, particularly those within the tumor, creating a rapid and irreversible shutdown of these blood vessels. OXiGENE believes that shutting off a tumor’s blood supply is an efficient therapeutic strategy and that there are many advantages to using VDAs. First, many thousands of tumor cells depend on each blood vessel, and thus, damage to a relatively small number of endothelial cells, which line the blood vessels, could reduce blood flow and trigger a cascade of tumor cell death. Second, since the endothelial cells, the primary target of VDAs, reside adjacent to the blood stream, delivery problems that are common with conventional chemotherapy are not an issue. Third, since endothelial cells are normal cells, that lack the genetic instability of tumor cells, treatment-resistant mutations are unlikely to emerge. Finally, recent advances in technologies that can accurately measure blood flow in a tumor have allowed OXiGENE to establish early in the clinical trial process whether a VDA has biological activity. Based on pre-clinical studies and results from early stage clinical trials that show significant anti-tumor activity with VDA therapy, the Company believes that VDAs will be complementary to existing and emerging cancer treatments. As such, in 2005 OXiGENE broadened its clinical trial pipeline and is currently evaluating CA4P in combination with prevalent anti-cancer therapies, such as radiation and chemotherapy, as well as newer, highly-targeted therapies, such as anti-VEGF therapy, in a variety of key indications. These clinical trials are currently in various stages, including Phase Ib, Phase II and Phase III. OXiGENE also continues to conduct preclinical research studies with VDAs. OXiGENE’s second clinical compound, OXi4503, is a lead compound in a distinct class of clinical candidates called ortho-quinone prodrugs, or OQPs. OQPs exhibit the properties of vascular disrupting agents, but can then be metabolized into a compound that kills the remaining tumor cells at the periphery of the tumor. OXi4503 is currently being evaluated in a Phase I trial for the treatment of solid tumors. Combretastatin. Combretastatin compounds are organic small molecules found naturally in the bark of the African bush willow tree (Combretum caffrum). They were discovered and isolated over a decade ago at Arizona State University, or ASU. In May 1997, OXiGENE and ASU entered into an option agreement to develop and test Combretastatins. The agreement granted OXiGENE an option to acquire an exclusive, world-wide, royalty-bearing license with respect to the family of Combretastatins’ commercial rights, which OXiGENE exercised and subsequently signed a license agreement with respect to on August 2, 1999. 5 Table of Contents OXiGENE’s most clinically advanced compound in the Combretastatin family is Combretastatin A4P (CA4P). Since its early stage clinical trials with CA4P, which were initiated in the fourth quarter of 1998 and the first quarter of 1999, OXiGENE has made tremendous strides with the compound’s clinical advancement. Today, CA4P is being evaluated in nine clinical trials in oncology, both as a monotherapy and in combination with other cancer treatments. CA4P is currently in one Phase III clinical trial, three Phase II clinical trials and five Phase Ib or Ib/ II clinical trials in various key cancer indications. The compound is also the only VDA in a human clinical trial in combination with the anti-angiogenic agent, Avastin. Based on the various stages of its clinical development and the breadth of monotherapy and combination treatments being evaluated clinically, OXiGENE believes that CA4P is the leading VDA candidate in the clinic today. In December 2001, the Company announced the selection of OXi4503 as its second clinical compound, and moved forward with preclinical development. Today, OXi4503 is the lead clinical compound in a class of drugs we have termed OQPs. OXi4503 has a profile of activity that appears to be distinct from that of CA4P in that it appears to be able to cause tumor regressions in a number of experimental tumor systems when administered as a single agent. While CA4P has demonstrated the ability to block blood flow to most central parts of the tumor when it is used alone, regrowth can occur in many cases from a narrow rim of tumor cells surviving at the periphery adjacent to normal tissue. Current research indicates that, in addition to the effects on blood vessels penetrating the tumor, OXi4503 is metabolized to a compound which appears to attack the surviving tumor cells and blood vessels in the tumor periphery. A Phase I dose-escalating clinical trial of OXi4503 in patients with advanced cancer was initiated in December 2004 and is currently ongoing. Since other disease pathologies are associated with the abnormal development of new vessels, VDAs may have application outside of cancer therapy. Promising data with CA4P in animal models of ocular disorders associated with neovascularization led the Company, in conjunction with key partners, to investigate its use in various eye diseases. Today, CA4P is being studied in a Phase II trial to evaluate its effect in patients with MMD. Additionally, OXiGENE is conducting preclinical experiments to determine a local, non-systemic delivery mechanism of CA4P that could be used to treat age-related, wet macular degeneration (wAMD). In addition to the compounds discussed above, OXiGENE is developing several other compounds that exhibit VDA-like characteristics. CLINICAL TRIAL PROGRAM Combretastatin A-4 Prodrug. The Company began testing CA4P in three Phase I dose-escalating clinical trials during the fourth quarter of 1998 and the first quarter of 1999. Each of these clinical trials, which examined the safety, pharmacokinetics and mode of action of CA4P using three different dose regimens in patients with advanced solid tumors, has been completed. The key findings of these initial clinical trials are summarized below: (1) CA4P was manageable and well tolerated. (2) A similar maximum tolerated dose was determined in each clinical trial. (3) The side-effect profile did not display the typical toxicities associated with chemotherapeutic agents. (4) CA4P demonstrated reductions in tumor blood flow below, up to, and beyond the maximum tolerated dose. (5) There is data to support biological and vascular activity in humans with a meaningful therapeutic index. (6) Promising signs of clinical effects were observed with one complete response, one partial response, two cases of measurable tumor size reduction and three cases of long-term stabilization of disease. 6 Table of Contents Following the successful completion of these initial three Phase I trials, CA4P progressed to the next stage of clinical evaluation. Throughout 2002 and 2003, CA4P entered in various investigator-sponsored clinical trials, either as a monotherapy or in combination trials with either chemotherapy or radiotherapy. These early dose-escalating trials were aimed to further CA4P’s clinical development and to assess its anti-tumor effects and safety profile. The combination trials were also conducted to evaluate the compatibility and potential synergistic effects of CA4P with various cancer treatment modalities in key oncology indications. CA4P in Oncology From these trials, OXiGENE developed what is considered today our core clinical development program with CA4P in oncology, and set the foundation for the Company’s registrational pathway in oncology with our lead clinical compound: Phase III: CA4P in Combination with Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Non small cell lung cancer accounts for approximately 75% of all lung cancer making it the most widespread form of lung cancer. Approximately 350,000 cases are expected to be diagnosed globally each year and approximately half of those people afflicted with NSCLC will have the most advanced stages of the disease (Stage IIIb or Stage IV), that are not treatable with surgery alone. Stage IIIb/ IV inoperable lung cancer yields a poor prognosis with median survival time estimated at 6.7 months. In December 2005, OXiGENE announced its receipt of regulatory clearance from the MHRA in the United Kingdom to commence its first Phase III clinical trial. The trial will evaluate CA4P in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy for the treatment of unresectable Stage IIIb/ IV NSCLC. The Phase III study of CA4P in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy will be a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial. The trial is expected to enroll approximately 370 patients who have not had prior treatment for NSCLC and who will be randomized into either a control group or a treatment group. The primary objective of this trial is to compare median survival time of patients in the treatment group versus the control group. Tumor response will be evaluated using the international standard for oncology clinical trials, known as Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors, or RECIST. The trial will also further define the safety profile in the treatment group. OXiGENE plans to file for regulatory clearance to commence this trial in several additional countries. The initiation of this clinical trial marks the first VDA to enter a Phase III clinical trial. The Phase III clinical trial followed a Phase Ib clinical trial evaluating CA4P in combination with radiotherapy for the treatment of NSCLC as well as patient cohorts with prostate cancer and head and neck cancer. On October 5, 2005, investigators from the Mount Vernon Hospital in London presented interim trial data for the cohort of patients with NSCLC. The presentation was given at the National Cancer Research Institute’s Cancer Conference held in Birmingham, United Kingdom. The Phase Ib trial included two cohorts of patients with NSCLC who received radiotherapy and either a single dose of CA4P at the end of the first week of radiotherapy treatment or once weekly doses of CA4P for three weeks. The investigator noted in his presentation that those patients who received weekly CA4P for three weeks, as compared to those patients who received a single dose of CA4P, showed a trend to increase the median survival to approximately one year. The investigator also reported that increased radiation toxicities had not been observed when CA4P was administered, and that the side effects of CA4P observed to date were mild and self-limiting. The Phase Ib portion of this trial evaluating CA4P with radiotherapy remains ongoing in the prostate and head and neck patient cohorts. 7 Table of Contents Phase II: CA4P in Combination with Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy for the Treatment of Stage IIIa/IIIb NSCLC Stage IIIa NSCLC is one of the fastest growing segments of the disease, due to newer tests that enable earlier detection of the disease. In February 2006, OXiGENE announced that it will commence a randomized Phase II clinical trial to evaluate CA4P in combination with concurrent chemoradiotherapy, a widely accepted standard in the United States for the treatment of patients with all histological types of unresectable Stage IIIa/ IIIb NSCLC. The trial will be conducted under OXiGENE’s IND application on file with the FDA. The objective of the Phase II clinical trial is to evaluate the survival benefit in patients achieved at one year. The response rate will be evaluated according to RECIST. Phase II: CA4P in Combination with Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Advanced, Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cancer is the fourth most common cancer in women and the deadliest of the gynecologic cancers. The disease often has no symptoms in its early stages. As a result, most patients have advanced disease at the time of diagnosis. Standard therapy for newly diagnosed ovarian cancer usually consists of surgery to remove the tumor, ovaries, and uterus, followed by chemotherapy with carboplatin alone, or both paclitaxel and carboplatin. Carboplatin and paclitaxel are the commonly used cytotoxic agents in solid malignancies, such as ovarian cancer, and have been combined with each other, as well as other agents, leading to enhanced efficacy without compromising safety. Despite advances in the management of cancer with chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery, the disease recurs in many women within five years. Patients whose disease recurs within six months of completion of chemotherapy with a platinum-based drug are considered “platinum-resistant.” The majority of women with advanced ovarian cancer will relapse and virtually all of these women will be considered platinum-resistant either at first relapse or at a later relapse. On September 21, 2005, the Company announced the initiation of a Phase II clinical trial evaluating CA4P in triple combination therapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel — a widely used chemotherapeutic regimen — for the treatment of relapsed, advanced platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The Phase II triple combination trial will be an international, open-label trial designed to determine the safety and efficacy of CA4P in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel. The clinical trial will be a multi-center study, and patient response will be evaluated using the international standard, RECIST, and CA125 response criteria. OXiGENE expects the Phase II study to be initiated at cancer centers in the United Kingdom and the United States. In November 2005, OXiGENE announced that interim data from the Phase Ib portion of a Phase I/II trial was presented at the American Association for Cancer Research Meeting. The principal investigator in his presentation noted a 67% response rate to the combination treatment among a sub-population of evaluable patients with advanced, inoperable ovarian cancer (10 out of 15 evaluable patients) who were treated with a combination of CA4P and chemotherapy, all of whom had failed previous, alternate cancer treatments. Tumor response was measured according to RECIST or CA125. Additionally, four ovarian cancer patients had disease stabilization during treatment, and partial responses were seen in patients with esophageal cancer and small cell lung cancer. Phase Ib: CA4P in Combination with the Anti-Angiogenic Agent, Avastin, for the Treatment of Solid Malignancies While anti-angiogenesis agents, like Avastin, and anti-tumor VDAs, such as CA4P, both target a tumor’s blood vessels, they differ in their approach and in their end result. With anti-angiogenesis agents, the aim is to prevent tumor growth by inhibiting the formation of new tumor-specific blood vessels that sprout and feed the tumor. These agents may have to be used chronically over months and years to prevent further growth of the tumor mass. As the tumor is not destroyed, it can form new feeder blood vessels after treatment has stopped. Anti-tumor VDAs, by comparison, aim to attack tumors rapidly by selectively disrupting the existing blood vessel structure, particularly the vessels within the tumor, creating 8 Table of Contents a rapid and irreversible shutdown of these blood vessels. Thus, while VDAs appear to destroy the established blood vessel network within a tumor, anti-angiogenic agents are thought to primarily prevent the growth of new blood vessels. Further, anti-angiogenics may be successful in targeting and preventing regrowth of the viable rim of a tumor, which remains intact post-VDA treatment. A growing abundance of preclinical data has demonstrated that the pairing of a VDA compound with an anti-angiogenic agent could be a potentially potent therapeutic combination in oncology. OXiGENE believes that combining these compounds could ultimately offer a new and viable cancer treatment strategy that destroys a tumor not only by targeting new blood vessel growth, but also by razing the already established tumor blood vessel network. On November 16, 2005, we reported that an investigator presented preclinical data that indicated that the combination of CA4P or OXi4503, OXiGENE’s second clinical candidate, with the anti-angiogenic drug, Avastin, showed biological and anti-tumor activity. Both CA4P and OXi4503 appeared to improve the effectiveness of Avastin. Tumor response was measured by tumor growth delay in a human renal cell carcinoma model (Caki-1). The results suggested that treatment with Avastin and CA4P or OXi4503 resulted in statistically significant tumor growth delays, and that both CA4P and OXi4503 appeared to be effective at causing vasculature damage and tumor cell death in the central regions of solid tumors. The study also suggested that OXi4503 reduced the peripheral rim of tumor cells that can lead to tumor regrowth. Based on this preclinical evidence, on December 5, 2005 OXiGENE announced the initiation of a Phase Ib clinical trial to evaluate CA4P in combination therapy with Avastin in patients with solid tumors. This will be the first human clinical trial to pair a vascular disrupting compound and an anti-angiogenic agent in the treatment of cancer, specifically in people who have failed previous treatment and who are in advanced stages of disease. OXiGENE’s Phase Ib combination trial with Avastin will be a traditional open-label, multi-center trial designed to determine the safety and tolerability of ascending doses of CA4P administered intravenously in combination with Avastin. Dosing levels of CA4P will be escalated until a maximum tolerated dose is achieved. Anti-tumor effects and tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST. Pharmacodynamic effects to assess blood flow shutdown to the tumor will be assessed with Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or MRI. In addition to these core clinical programs in oncology, CA4P is currently being studied in several investigator-sponsored clinical trials. OXiGENE believes that the results from investigator-sponsored trials could identify other oncology indications where CA4P could exhibit significant anti-cancer effects. Other clinical trials with CA4P in oncology A Phase II single-agent trial was initiated in 2003 at the Ireland Cancer Center at University Hospitals of Cleveland to treat a rare form of thyroid cancer, anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, or ATC. A complete response in this tumor type was achieved in one patient of the Phase I trials. This trial is designed to evaluate the mean survival time of patients with regionally advanced and/or metastatic ATC treated with CA4P in comparison to what has historically been a 4-6 month mean survival time with conventional therapy. The clinical trial centers have been expanded to include the Josephine Ford Cancer Center in Detroit and University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. A Phase I/ II trial for ATC was initiated at the Ireland Cancer Center at University Hospitals of Cleveland and the Josephine Ford Cancer Center. This trial is designed to evaluate the mean survival time of patients with newly diagnosed ATC undergoing treatment with CA4P as part of a multimodality regimen, that is, in combination with the conventional chemotherapeutic agents doxorubicin and cisplatin, as well as radiotherapy. A Phase I/ II trial to evaluate the combination of CA4P with the radiolabeled anti-CEA monoclonal antibody A5B7 is ongoing at the Mount Vernon and Royal Free Hospitals in the UK under the auspices of the Cancer Research UK. Studies with the combination of these agents in pre-clinical xenograft models 9 Table of Contents demonstrated a high degree of synergy. Patients in this study will include only those with advanced colorectal cancer expressing the CEA antigen. The study will employ two dose levels of CA4P and three dose levels of the antibody. In addition to assessing the safety profile of the combination, the relationship between efficacy and tumor blood flow reduction will also be evaluated. A Phase I trial evaluating CA4P in combination with cisplatin, a primary chemotherapeutic treatment for cervical cancer, is also underway. This is a dose-escalating, open-label clinical trial being conducted under the auspices of the Nordic Society of Gynecological Oncology (NSGO) in Denmark with additional centers in Norway and Scotland. Approximately 18 patients with advanced or recurrent cervical cancers incurable by standard treatments will be enrolled. The trial’s objectives are to assess the safety profile of the combination of cisplatin and CA4P, to gain preliminary evidence of efficacy and to determine the recommended Phase II dose. In December 2004, OXiGENE announced the initiation a Phase II clinical trial with CA4P in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel. This trial is ongoing although patient enrollment is complete. OXiGENE advanced CA4P into this Phase II trial with chemotherapy ahead of schedule based on positive results from a Phase I/ II trial conducted at the Mount Vernon Hospital in London, UK. This Phase II trial led by Dr. Wallace Akerley, Director of Clinical Research at the Huntsman Cancer Center at the University of Utah, is investigating patients commonly treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel therapies, such as those with breast, lung or ovarian cancers. The patients are being treated with the full combination of CA4P, carboplatin and paclitaxel. The objectives of the trial are to assess the safety of two dose levels of CA4P in combination with the chemotherapeutic agents, gather data on anti-tumor activity and establish a recommended Phase II/ III dose. In addition, this study is assessing changes in tumor blood flow using MRI, which may provide additional insight into CA4P’s mechanism of action and biological activity and increase the understanding of its clinical effects in patients. OXi4503 in Oncology OXiGENE initiated a clinical trial with its second oncology candidate, OXi4503. In December 2004, the Company announced the initiation of a Phase I study of OXi4503 in solid tumors. OXi4503 has been shown in animals to have potent anti-tumor activity as both a single-agent and in combination therapy. OXi4503 is the lead compound in a novel class of agents that we have termed OQPs. This agent is of particular interest in that it exhibits not only the vascular disrupting properties characteristic of our lead vascular targeting agent CA4P, but also appears to cause direct death to tumor cells. The study, which is being conducted by Cancer Research UK, is a dose-escalating trial in which the primary endpoints are safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics. Although ostensibly a Phase I safety study, the protocol design has incorporated advanced testing to monitor patients through extensive blood work, MRI and Positron Emission Tomography, or PET scans to gain further insight into the mechanism of action of OXi4503. Two clinical centers in the UK are involved in the trial. CA4P in Diseases of the Eye Based on promising clinical results and our current understanding of the safety profile of CA4P gleaned from our ongoing oncology studies, we have also broadened our clinical development efforts of CA4P into the field of ophthalmology. In ophthalmology settings, VDAs attack the network of abnormally formed existing and emerging blood vessels which have infiltrated the back of the eye and which may leak and cause severe visual impairment. Phase II: CA4P for the Treatment of Myopic Macular Degeneration In November 2004, OXiGENE announced the initiation of a Phase II clinical trial of CA4P in patients with myopic macular degeneration, or MMD under its Investigational New Drug application submitted to the FDA. MMD is a progressively degenerative eye disease that can lead to legal blindness. It has been estimated to afflict more than 300,000 patients worldwide with a yearly incident rate of more than 50,000 in the United States and Western Europe, but excluding Asia, where the rates are estimated to be higher. This Phase II clinical trial is an open label, dose-ranging, international multi-centered study 10 Table of Contents that will assess the safety and efficacy of CA4P in the treatment of MMD. The Company will enroll patients with active choroidal neovascularization associated with MMD in the trial. Patient progress will be monitored by visual acuity and state of the art techniques, such as fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography, or OCT, which the Company anticipates will lead to a greater understanding of the biological activity of CA4P in this setting. This trial is currently underway, and OXiGENE expects to complete patient enrollment in the first half of 2006. Additionally, we are pursuing non-systemic or local methods of administering CA4P for wet age-related macular degeneration and possibly other ophthalmic indications. We are analyzing data from these preclinical experiments completed at the close of 2005 and expect to advance into a preclinical toxicology program to enable the filing of an IND in 2007. REGULATORY MATTERS Government Regulation And Product Approval Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, packaging, promotion, storage, advertising, distribution, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. Our drugs must be approved by FDA through the new drug application, or NDA, process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, license suspension or revocation, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: • completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices; • submission of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; • performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; • submission to the FDA of an NDA; • satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA. United States Drug Development Process Once a pharmaceutical candidate is identified for development it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND. Some preclinical or nonclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. In addition to including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND will also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of 11 Table of Contents the first phase of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated, if the first phase lends itself to an efficacy evaluation. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trial. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with good clinical practice regulations. These regulations include the requirement that all research subjects provide informed consent. Further, an institutional review board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution. Each new clinical protocol must be submitted with the IND for FDA review, and to the IRBs for approval. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if adverse events or other certain types of other changes occur. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: • Phase I: The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the disease and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. • Phase II: Involves studies in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. • Phase III: Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These studies are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the product and provide, if appropriate, an adequate basis for product labeling. Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or an IRB or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. U.S. Review and Approval Processes The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug, results of chemical studies and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted to ensure that they are sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts them for filing. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept a NDA for filing. In this event, the NDA must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of user fees; a waiver of such fees may be obtained under certain 12 Table of Contents limited circumstances. The approval process is lengthy and difficult and FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or other data and information. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. NDAs receive either standard or priority review. A drug representing a significant improvement in treatment, prevention or diagnosis of disease may receive priority review. In addition, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval and may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical trials. Priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval, but may expedite the approval process. Expedited review and approval The FDA has various programs, including fast track, priority review, and accelerated approval, that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs, and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Even if a drug qualifies for one or more of these programs, we cannot be sure that the FDA will not later decide that the drug no longer meets the conditions for qualification or that the time period for FDA review or approval will be shortened. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs, and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. Fast track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Although fast track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a fast track designated drug and expedite review of the application for a drug designated for priority review. Drugs that receive an accelerated approval may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect of a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform post-marketing clinical trials. Orphan Drug Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of our product for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same drug as defined by the FDA or if our product is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. We obtained orphan drug designation for CA4P for the treatment of anaplastic thyroid cancer, and we intend to file for orphan drug designation for those diseases that meet the criteria for orphan designation. There is no guarantee that we 13 Table of Contents will be awarded orphan exclusivity for any other products or indications. In addition, obtaining FDA approval to market a product with orphan drug exclusivity may not provide us with a material commercial advantage. Pediatric Exclusivity The FDA Modernization Act of 1997 included a pediatric exclusivity provision that was extended by the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act of 2002. Pediatric exclusivity is designed to provide an incentive to manufacturers for conducting research about the safety of their products in children. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, provides an additional six months of market exclusivity in the U.S. for new or currently marketed drugs. Under Section 505A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, six months of market exclusivity may be granted in exchange for the voluntary completion of pediatric studies in accordance with an FDA-issued “Written Request.” The FDA may issue a Written Request for studies on unapproved or approved indications, where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may produce health benefits in that population. We have not requested or received a Written Request for such pediatric studies, although we may ask the FDA to issue a Written Request for such studies in the future. To receive the six-month pediatric market exclusivity, we would have to receive a Written Request from the FDA, conduct the requested studies, and submit reports of the studies in accordance with a written agreement with the FDA or, if there is no written agreement, in accordance with commonly accepted scientific principles. There is no guarantee that the FDA will issue a Written Request for such studies or accept the reports of the studies. The current pediatric exclusivity provision is scheduled to end on October 1, 2007 and it may not be reauthorized. Post-approval Requirements Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Any drug products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the drug, providing FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, drug sampling and distribution requirements, notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of certain manufacturing or labeling changes, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements, and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. 14 Table of Contents Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. Under European Union regulatory systems, we may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by certain biotechnological processes and optional for those which are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union Member States. For drugs without approval in any Member State, the decentralized procedure provides for recognition by individual Member States of the marketing authorization granted by one Member State, known as the Reference Member State (RMS). Under this procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, to the RMS, and after receiving its approval submits an updated dossier and an assessment report prepared by the RMS to other Member States in which the applicant is seeking licensure. Within 90 days of receiving the updated dossier and the assessment report, each other Member State must decide whether to recognize the assessment report. If a Member State does not recognize the assessment report, the disputed points may eventually be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all Member States. Reimbursement Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of third-party reimbursement. We anticipate third-party payors will provide reimbursement for our products. It is time consuming and expensive for us to seek reimbursement from third-party payors. Reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, which may affect the marketing of our products. The MMA also introduced a new reimbursement methodology, part of which went into effect in 2004. At this point, it is not clear what effect the MMA will have on the prices paid for currently approved drugs and the pricing options for new drugs approved after January 1, 2006. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. 15 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS The Company’s strategy is to develop innovative therapeutics for oncology and to leverage its technology in the field of ophthalmology. The principal focus of the Company, in the foreseeable future, is to complete the clinical development of its compounds CA4P and OXi4503 and to identify new preclinical candidates that are complementary to our VDAs and OQPs. To advance its strategy, the Company has established relationships with universities, research organizations and other institutions in these fields. The Company intends to broaden these relationships, rather than expand its in-house research and development staff. In general, these programs are created, developed and controlled by internal Company management. Currently, the Company has collaborative agreements and arrangements with a number of institutions in the United States and abroad, which it utilizes to perform the day-to-day activities associated with drug development. In 2005, collaborations were ongoing with a variety of university and research institutions, including the following: • Gray Cancer Institute, Middlesex, United Kingdom; • Baylor University, Waco, Texas; • Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona; • The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas; and, • Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts. In December 2001, the Company announced the selection of its next generation VDA, OXi4503. OXi4503 is a VDA with a profile of activity that appears distinct from CA4P in that it appears to be able to cause tumor regressions in experimental tumor systems with single-agent activity. While CA4P has demonstrated the ability to block blood flow to the tumor in all but the periphery of a tumor, OXi4503 appears to attack blood vessels in all regions of the tumor, including the periphery. The Company has secured a technology license from Arizona State University, or ASU. The ASU license is an exclusive, world-wide, royalty-bearing license with respect to the commercial rights to particular Combretastatins. Under the ASU license, the Company has the right to grant sublicenses. ASU is entitled to royalty and milestone payments under the license agreement. The Company bears the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting and maintaining all patent applications under the ASU license. Under the license agreement, the Company has agreed to diligently proceed with the development, manufacture and sale of products using the licensed technology. ASU has the first responsibility of enforcing patents under the license agreement. Either party may terminate the license agreement upon material default or bankruptcy of the other party. Payments made to ASU to date have amounted to $2,200,000. The agreement is to terminate on December 31, 2014 or within two months of receipt of written notice of termination from the Company. Currently, the Company is in compliance with the license. The Company also has a license from Baylor University. The Baylor license is an exclusive license to all novel compositions developed for the treatment of vascular disorders, inflammation, parasitic diseases and infections, fungal diseases and infections and/or cancer. The Company has the right to grant sublicenses under the Baylor license. The agreement with Baylor stipulates that royalties will be paid by OXiGENE should sales be generated through use of Baylor’s compounds. The Company is not required to pay Baylor for use of Baylor’s compounds aside from this royalty arrangement. The Company is entitled to file, prosecute and maintain patent applications on products for which it has a license. The Company had made a one-time payment of $50,000 for the licensing fee that was used as a credit against research expenses generated by Baylor. The agreement will terminate on June 1, 2009 or within 90 days of written notice of material breach of the agreement by either party. Currently, the Company is in compliance with the Baylor license. In May 2003, the Company announced the discovery of its most recent drug candidate, OXi8007. The molecular structure of OXi8007, which was discovered through the collaboration with Baylor University, is distinct from the Company’s Combretastatin family of tumor-starving compounds (CA4P and OXi4503) and from its OXi6197 anti-tumor agent. 16 Table of Contents In May 2003, Cancer Research UK agreed to complete pre-clinical studies on OXi4503 and to then move the compound into Phase I human clinical trials. Cancer Research UK is Europe’s leading cancer charity, dedicated to curing, treating and preventing the disease through world-class research. The charity relies almost entirely on voluntary donations from the public to fund the vital work of its 3,000 scientists, doctors and nurses. Unless and until the Company enters into any new material collaborations, with respect to CA4P and/or the related Combretastatin family of compounds, the Company intends to advance its potential product candidates through the next stages of clinical trials and development independently. PATENTS AND TRADE SECRETS To date, OXiGENE’s principal products have been based on certain previously known compounds. The Company anticipates that any products it develops hereafter may include or be based on the same or other compounds owned or produced by unaffiliated parties, as well as synthetic compounds it may discover. Although the Company expects to seek patent protection for any compounds it discovers, there is no assurance that any or all of them will be subject to effective patent protection. Further, the development of regimens for the administration of pharmaceuticals, which generally involve specifications for the frequency, timing and amount of dosages, has been, and the Company believes will continue to be, important to the Company’s development efforts, although those processes, as such, may not be patentable. Patent Protection. It is the Company’s policy to seek patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries. Primarily because of different patent laws in various jurisdictions, the scope of, and hence the protection afforded by, any patents OXiGENE may receive may vary even though they relate essentially to the same subject matter. The patent position of firms in the Company’s industry generally involves highly complex legal and other issues, resulting in both an apparent inconsistency regarding the breadth of claims allowed in United States patents and general uncertainty as to their legal interpretation and enforceability. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that patent applications owned by the Company will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, the patents will afford competitive protection. Further, there can be no assurance that products or processes developed by the Company will not be covered by third party patents, in which case continued development and marketing of those products or processes could require a license under such patents. There can be no assurance that if a legal action were to be brought against the Company on the basis of any third party patents, such action would be resolved in the Company’s favor. An unfavorable finding against the Company could result in monetary damages and injunctive relief. Further, even a favorable result could cause expenditure of substantial monetary and other resources in connection with the Company’s defense against any such action. Granted Patents and Pending Applications. The following is a brief description of the Company’s current patent position, both in the United States and abroad. As United States patent applications are generally maintained in secrecy by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for at least some time after filing and because publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, OXiGENE cannot be certain that it was the first creator of inventions covered by its pending applications or that it was the first to file patent applications for those inventions. The Company has exclusive rights in twenty-five (25) granted United States patents, twenty-four (24) pending United States patent applications, and granted patents and/or pending applications in several other major markets, including the European Union, Canada and Japan. 17 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Company’s United States patent portfolio by the number of patents that have been granted or that are currently pending for each of its product lines: OXiGENE’s United States Patent Portfolio Patents Pending Patents Granted Product Line Combretastatins 14 10 Baylor VDA Compounds 9 7 Benzamides, Nicotinamides, & Cordycepins 1 7 Diagnostic 0 1 Total 24 25 The following table summarizes the United States patent number, applicable expiration date, holder of patent and importance of the Company’s material patents: Title of Patent U.S. Patent No. Date of Expiration Holder of Patent Importance Combretastatin A-4 4,996,237 February 26, 2008 Arizona State University Provides composition-of-matter protection for the active, tubulin-binding parent compound of the prodrug CA4P, as well as protection for methods-of-use for treatment of cancer. CA4 is generated in the body following administration of CA4P, which is the Company’s most advanced product. Combretastatin A-4 Prodrug 5,561,122 December 22, 2014 Arizona State University Provides composition-of-matter protection for the Company’s lead VDA compound, CA4P. Claims were also granted for methods of using CA4P for the treatment of cancer. Isolation, Structural Elucidation, and Synthesis of novel Antineoplastic Agents termed “Combretastatins” 5,569,786 October 29, 2013 Arizona State University Provides composition-of-matter protection for several Combretastatins, including CA1, which is the active, tubulin-binding compound of OXi4503, the Company’s most advanced second generation compound. Isolation, Structural Elucidation, and Synthesis of novel Antineoplastic Agents termed “Combretastatins” 5,409,953 April 25,2012 Arizona State University Provides methods of using Combretastins, including CA1, for the treatment of cancerous cells. CA1 is the active, tubulin-binding parent compound of OXi4503, the Company’s most advanced second generation compound. 18 Table of Contents Title of Patent U.S. Patent No. Date of Expiration Holder of Patent Importance Compositions and Methods for Use in Targeting Vascular Destruction 6,538,038 February 16, 2020 OXiGENE, Inc. Provides methods of using phosphate prodrugs of tubulin- binding compounds, including CA4P and OXi4503, to selectively target the proliferating vasculature of cancers, proliferative retinopathies, and other diseases characterized by the presence of unwanted neovascularization. Combretastatin A-4 Phosphate Prodrug Mono- and Di-Organic Amine Salts, Mono- and Di- Amino Acid Salts, and Mono- and D-Amino Acid Ester Salts 6,670,344 September 11, 2021 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Provides novel Tromethamine (“TRIS”) and Histidine salt forms of CA4P along with methods for their use and manufacture. The preferred TRIS salt composition provides enhanced formulation properties over the Disodium salt of CA4P. Efficient Method of Synthesizing Combretastatin A-4 Prodrugs 6,743,937 July 17,2021 OXiGENE, Inc. Provides methods of synthesizing combretastatin A4 phosphate esters, prodrugs and trans-isomers thereof. Use of combretastatin A4 and its prodrugs as an immune enhancing therapy 6,773,702 December 26, 2021 OXiGENE, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Provides treatment methods for counteracting tumor-induced immunosuppression (e.g., during conventional immunotherapy) that avoid vascular destruction by administering combretastatin A4 or prodrugs thereof. Combretastatin A-4 Phosphate Prodrug Mono- and Di-Organic Amine Salts, Mono- and Di- Amino Acid Salts, and Mono- and D-Amino Acid Ester Salts 6,855,702 September 11, 2021 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Provides optionally substituted aliphatic organic amine forms of CA4P, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds. Combretastatins. The Company’s core Combretastatin technology platform is covered by a mix of existing and pending patents. The Company has exclusive rights in ten (10) issued United States patents, fourteen (14) pending United States patent applications, and granted patents and/or pending applications in other countries corresponding to the majority of the granted United States patents, all of which relate to Combretastatin compositions and/or methods of use in treating cancer or other angiogenic diseases. For the in-licensed patents and applications, the owners of record are the Arizona Board of Regents, a corporate body of the State of Arizona, acting for and on behalf of ASU and Bristol Myers Squibb Company. On February 15, 2005, United States Patent No. 6,855,702 (the “CA4P Tris Salt Patent continuation”) was issued. The CA4P Tris Salt patent continuation is exclusively licensed from Bristol Myers Squibb Company. The Company filed three additional United States applications in 2005, all of which claim new methods of use for existing Combretastatin VDAs. 19 Table of Contents Baylor VDA Compounds. The Company has maintained exclusive patent rights to a number of tubulin-binding agents that have potential for future development as VDAs. These compounds are functionally related but structurally distinct from Combretastatin, and are covered by seven (7) issued United States patents and nine (9) pending United States patent applications. Ownership of the licensed patents and patent applications is assigned to Baylor University. OXiGENE is a co-assignee of pending patent applications in this area. Three patents issued in 2005 relating to the Baylor VDA compounds, including United States Patent Nos. 6,849,656; 6,919,324; and 6,956,054. The Company filed three additional United States applications in 2005, all of which relate to Baylor VDA compounds. COMPETITION The industry in which the Company is engaged is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. The Company’s competitors include, among others, major pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of which have financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than those of the Company. In addition, many of the small companies that compete with the Company have also formed collaborative relationships with large, established companies to support research, development, clinical trials and commercialization of products that may be competitive with those of the Company. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research activities and seeking patent protection and may commercialize products on their own or through joint ventures or other collaborations. The Company is aware of a limited number of companies involved in the development of VDAs. Such companies include AstraZeneca, Sanofi-Aventis, Antisoma and MediciNova, all of which have VDAs that management believes are at an earlier stage of clinical development than the Company’s lead compound, CA4P. The Company is aware of a number of companies engaged in the research, development and testing of new cancer therapies or ways of increasing the effectiveness of existing therapies. Such companies include, among others, AstraZeneca, Sanofi-Aventis, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Aeterna Laboratories Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, EntreMed Inc., Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Millennium, NeoPharm, Inc., Novartis AG, Pharmacyclics, Inc., Pfizer Inc., and Pierre Fabre S.A., some of whose products have already received, or are in the process of receiving, regulatory approval or are in later stages of clinical trials. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective, safer or more affordable than those being developed by the Company. The Company expects that, if any of its products gain regulatory approval for sale, they will compete primarily on the basis of product efficacy, safety, patient convenience, reliability, price and patent protection. The Company’s competitive position will also depend on its ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective proprietary products and implement joint ventures or other alliances with large pharmaceutical companies in order to jointly market and manufacture its products. EMPLOYEES The Company expects to maintain a relatively small number of executives and other employees. OXiGENE relies as much as possible on consultants and independent contractors for its research, development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials. As of February 17, 2006 the Company had twenty-six (26) full-time employees, of which sixteen (16) were engaged in research and development and monitoring of clinical trials. Most of the Company’s pre-clinical testing and clinical trials are subcontracted and performed at universities in the United States and Europe with the assistance of contract research organizations. 20 Table of Contents SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD AND CLINICAL TRIAL ADVISORY BOARD OXiGENE’s Clinical Trial Advisory Board assesses and evaluates the Company’s clinical trial program. The Scientific Advisory Board discusses and evaluates the Company’s research and development projects. Members of the Clinical Trial Advisory Board and the Scientific Advisory Board are independent and have no involvement with the Company other than serving on such boards. From time to time, however, the institutions or organizations these individuals are associated with may provide the Company with services. Some members of the Scientific Advisory Board and the Clinical Trial Advisory Board receive cash compensation. Others have from time to time received, and are expected to continue to receive, options to purchase shares of Common Stock of the Company. All members are reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with serving on such boards. The members of the Company’s Scientific Advisory Board are: ADRIAN L. HARRIS, M.D. is Cancer Research UK Professor of Clinical Oncology at the University of Oxford, and Director of the Cancer Research UK Molecular Oncology Laboratories at the University’s Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine. He is involved in clinical trials of anti-angiogenesis therapy, signal blockade inhibitors and immunotherapy. His clinical research interests include breast cancer, melanoma, and renal cancer. ROBERT S. KERBEL, Ph.D. is known internationally for his research into cancer metastasis, drug resistance and tumor angiogenesis. He is a senior scientist, as well as the Canada Research Chair in Molecular Medicine at Sunnybrook and Women’s College Health Sciences Centre in Toronto and Professor of the Department of Medical Biophysics at the University of Toronto. He is the author of more than 270 scientific papers and the recipient of numerous scientific awards. Dr. Kerbel serves on the editorial boards of many scientific journals, including Cancer Research, Clinical Cancer Research, Molecular Cancer Research and Angiogenesis. He was Editor-in-Chief of Cancer & Metastasis Reviews from 1991-2001. Dr. Kerbel received his B.S. from the University of Toronto and his Ph.D. in immunology from Queen’s University. He was a post-doctoral fellow in cancer biology at the Chester Beatty Research Institute in London, England. DIETMAR W. SIEMANN, Ph.D. (Chairman) is the John P. Cofrin Professor and Associate Chair for Research in Radiation Oncology at the University of Florida College of Medicine in Gainesville. In addition, he is a Professor in the school’s Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics. Dr. Siemann has authored more than 150 scientific papers and is the recipient of numerous scientific awards, including the Research Award of the Radiation Research Society in Oak Brook, Illinois (1990). He is the former Chairman of the National Cancer Institute’s Radiation Study Section (1996-1998). The members of the Company’s Clinical Trial Advisory Board are: EUGENE de JUAN, Jr., M.D. is a Professor of Ophthalmology at the Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California. Before joining the faculty of the Keck School, he served as the co-director of vitreoretinal service, director of the Microsurgery Advanced Design Laboratory and Joseph E. Green Professor of Ophthalmology at the Wilmer Eye Institute at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore. From 1983 to 1992, he was a member of the medical staff of the Duke University Eye Center, holding joint teaching appointments with the Department of Ophthalmology and Department of Cell Biology. A graduate of the University of South Alabama College of Medicine, de Juan served an internship at University of South Alabama Medical Center, a residency at the Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute and a fellowship in vitreoretinal surgery at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. He holds more than 20 patents. JEFFREY S. HEIER, M.D., is a Vitreoretinal Specialist at Ophthalmic Consultants of Boston, Co-Director of the Vitreoretinal Fellowship at OCB/ Tufts Medical School, and President of the 21 Table of Contents Center for Eye Research and Education in Boston, Massachusetts. Dr. Heier’s academic appointments include an instructorship in ophthalmology at Tufts University School of Medicine and Harvard University Medical School, both in Boston. Dr. Heier received a medical degree from Boston University School of Medicine in Massachusetts, and subsequently completed a transitional internship, ophthalmic residency, and vitreoretinal fellowship at Fitzsimons Army Medical Center. Additional postgraduate training includes a vitreoretinal fellowship completed at Ophthalmic Consultants of Boston/ Tufts University School of Medicine. Dr. Heier’s research interests are focused on age-related macular degeneration (ARMD), diabetic retinopathy, and innovation in vitreoretinal surgical instrumentation: areas he has pursued as lead or principal investigator in numerous clinical trials. HAKAN MELLSTEDT, M.D., Ph.D. (Chairman) is Professor of Oncologic Biotherapy at the Karolinska Institute and Managing Director of Cancer Center Karolinska, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. He holds a position as Chief Physician at the Department of Oncology (Radiumhemmet), Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, and has specialist certificates in Oncology, Hematology and Internal Medicine. He is a Member of the Board of Directors of ESMO (European Society for Medical Oncology) and a Member of ESMO’s Executive Committee. Professor Mellstedt is currently a member of the Editorial Board of several international scientific journals and has published more than 450 articles in the areas of hematology, Contributions to Biomolecular Technologies. LEE S. ROSEN, M.D. is the Director of Developmental Therapeutics for the Cancer Institute Medical Group, affiliated with the John Wayne Cancer Institute in Santa Monica. He is the former Adjunct Assistant Professor at UCLA’s Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology and served as Director of UCLA’s Cancer Therapy Development Program from 1996-2002. Dr. Rosen serves as the principal investigator for many Phase I and II clinical trials, focusing on novel agents in general and the angiogenesis inhibitors in particular. GORDON RUSTIN, M.D. is the Director of Medical Oncology at Mount Vernon Hospital, which is the largest cancer center in the South of England. He has published widely on management of gynecological cancers and germ cell tumors and the use of tumor markers. He has developed response criteria on CA125, which are now increasingly used in Phase II trials of ovarian cancer. He has recently been the principal investigator of two trials of vascular targeting agents, as well as several trials in ovarian cancer. He was awarded an Honorary Professorship by University College London in March 2001. MARGARET A. TEMPERO, M.D. is Deputy Director of the University of California San Francisco Cancer Center and Professor and Chief of Medical Oncology in the School of Medicine. She is the former President of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO). She also has served on the Board of ASCO and is on the Board of Scientific Counselors, which is advisory to the intramural programs on the National Cancer Institute. She holds or has held editorial positions on numerous prestigious journals, such as Cancer Research, Journal of Clinical Oncology, Clinical Cancer Research and the American Journal of Medicine. She is also credited with over 100 original articles and book chapters. JAN B. VERMORKEN, M.D., Ph.D. is a professor of Oncology and head of the Department of Medical Oncology of the University Hospital of the University of Antwerp, Belgium. Professor Vermorken has held numerous functions with the Dutch Cancer Society and the European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). He is a member of several EORTC study groups and presently is Secretary of the EORTC Head and Neck Cancer Group. Professor Vermorken has lectured extensively in the area of gynecological oncology and head and neck cancer, and currently serves on the editorial boards of several international journals. 22 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF SCIENTIFIC TERMS Angiogenesis The creation of new blood vessels. Chemotherapy Treatment with drugs whose aim is the mitigation or cure of diseases, such as cancer. Choroid The thin layer of major blood vessels that lies between the retina and sclera in the eye. The choroid supplies the retina with oxygen and nutrients. DNA Chemical building blocks of genetic material. Double-blind study A study in which neither the investigators assessing the outcome of the trial nor the patients know whether the patient is receiving the drug being investigated or merely a placebo. The outcome can only be determined when the results are decoded. Endothelial cells Thin, flat cells that line the interior surface of blood vessels. Their structure and functional integrity is fundamental to maintaining a blood vessel wall. IND An “Investigational New Drug” application filed with the United States Food and Drug Administration that permits the administration of compounds to humans in clinical trials. In vitro experiment An artificial environment created outside a living organism (e.g., a test tube or culture plate) used in experimental research to study a disease or process. In vivo experiment An experiment carried out in living organisms. Malignant cell Cancer cell. Metabolic function Living process of growth and reproduction. NDA A “New Drug Application” filed with the United States Food and Drug Administration, which, if approved, allows a drug to be marketed in the United States. Necrosis Cell death by decomposition. Placebo A non-active substance given to a group of patients in a clinical trial to duplicate the treatment method, but without the administration of the active drug under investigation. Radiation Physical energy that splits molecules and induces DNA damage. Retina The light sensitive portion of the back of the eye onto which images are projected Tubulin A protein that forms the basic building blocks of microtubules. Microtubules perform many functions inside the cell, including helping to maintain endothelial cell shape. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as oral statements that may be made by the Company or by officers, directors or employees of the Company acting on the Company’s behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results of the Company to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. The Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. 23 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future. We have experienced net losses every year since our inception and, as of December 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $101,955,000. We anticipate incurring substantial additional losses over at least the next several years due to, among other factors, the need to expend substantial amounts on our continuing clinical trials with respect to our VDA and OQP technologies, and anticipated research and development activities and the general and administrative expenses associated with those activities. We have not commercially introduced any product and our potential products are in varying early stages of development and testing. Our ability to attain profitability will depend upon our ability to develop products that are effective and commercially viable, to obtain regulatory approval for the manufacture and sale of our products and to license or otherwise market our products successfully. We may never achieve profitability, and even if we do, we may not be able to sustain being profitable. Our products have not completed clinical trials, and may never demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in order to do so. Our products are in an early stage of development. In order to achieve profitable operations, we, alone or in collaboration with others, must successfully develop, manufacture, introduce and market our products. The time frame necessary to achieve market success for any individual product is long and uncertain. The products currently under development by us will require significant additional research and development and extensive preclinical and clinical testing prior to application for commercial use. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in early or later stage studies or clinical trials. Although we have obtained some favorable results to date in preclinical studies and clinical trials of certain of our potential products, such results may not be indicative of results that will ultimately be obtained in or throughout such clinical trials, and clinical trials may not show any of our products to be safe or capable of producing a desired result. Additionally, we may encounter problems in our clinical trials that will cause us to delay, suspend or terminate those clinical trials. Further, our research or product development efforts or those of our collaborative partners may not be successfully completed, any compounds currently under development by us may not be successfully developed into drugs, any potential products may not receive regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, and competitors may develop and bring to market products or technologies that render our potential products obsolete. If any of these problems occur, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We depend, and likely will continue to depend, on third parties for clinical development and manufacturing and marketing of our products. We have limited internal resources with respect to drug development, the regulatory approval process, manufacturing and marketing of products. Accordingly, we have depended, and in the future are likely to continue to depend, on others for assistance in many areas, including research, conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials, the regulatory approval process, manufacturing and marketing. Funding requirements, competitive factors or prioritization of other opportunities may lead us to seek additional arrangements with third parties. While we are likely to continue to explore other licensing and development opportunities for our technologies with other companies, we may not succeed in establishing new collaborative agreements or licensing arrangements. Further, strategic collaborations involving our product candidates pose the following risks to us: • collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations; • collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs based on preclinical or clinical trial results, changes in their strategic focus or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities; 24 Table of Contents • collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; • collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our product candidates or future products if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit enough resources to their marketing and distribution; • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • disputes may arise between us and the collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and • collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development of the applicable product candidates. If third parties on which we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators and, in some cases, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct the clinical trials of our product candidates and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials and we do not control many aspects of their activities. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the respective trial plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates or result in enforcement action against us. We have licensed in rights to CA4P, OXi4503 and other programs from third parties. If our license agreements terminate, we may lose the licensed rights to our product candidates, including CA4P and OXi4503, and we may not be able to continue to develop them or, if they are approved, market or commercialize them. We depend on license agreements with third parties for certain intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates, including patent rights. Currently, we have licensed in patent rights from ASU and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for CA4P and OXi4503 and from Baylor University for other programs. In general, our license agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations in order to keep these agreements in effect and retain our rights under them. These payment obligations can include upfront fees, maintenance fees, milestones, royalties, patent prosecution expenses, and other fees. These performance obligations typically include diligence obligations. If we fail to pay, be diligent or otherwise perform as required under our license agreements, we could lose our rights under the patents and other intellectual property rights covered by the agreements. While we are not currently aware 25 Table of Contents of any dispute with any licensors under our material agreements with them, if disputes arise under any of our in-licenses, including our in-licenses from ASU and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and Baylor University, we could lose our rights under these agreements. Any such disputes may or may not be resolveable on favorable terms, or at all. Whether or not any disputes of this kind are favorably resolved, our management’s time and attention and our other resources could be consumed by the need to attend to and seek to resolve these disputes and our business could be harmed by the emergence of such a dispute. If we lose our rights under these agreements, we may not be able to conduct any further activities with the product candidate or program that the license covered. If this were to happen, we might not be able to develop our product candidates further, or following regulatory approval, if any, we might be prohibited from marketing or commercializing them. In particular, patents previously licensed to us might after termination be used to stop us from conducting these activities. We depend, and likely will continue to depend, on third parties for the manufacturing of our products. We rely on outside manufacturers for our drug substance and other active ingredients that meet appropriate standards for use in clinical studies of our products. Such third parties may not be able to produce our drug substance or drug product to appropriate standards for use in clinical trials or perform under any definitive manufacturing agreements with us. If we do not maintain important manufacturing relationships, we may fail to find replacement manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities which could delay or impair our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products and substantially increase our costs or deplete profit margins, if any. If we do find replacement manufacturers, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable to us and, there could be a substantial delay before new facilities could be qualified and registered with the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and corresponding foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. Contract manufacturers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing drug substance production and shipment delays or a situation where the contractor may not be able to maintain compliance with the applicable cGMP requirements. Any failure to comply with cGMP requirements or other FDA and comparable foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to develop our product candidates and market our products after approval. We will be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Negative cash flow from our operations is expected to continue over at least the next several years. We do not currently have any commitments to raise additional capital by selling equity, issuing debt or entering into any collaboration that would provide material funding. Our actual capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress of and results of our preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates under development, including CA4P and OXi4503; the progress of our research and development programs; the time and costs expended and required to obtain any necessary or desired regulatory approvals; the resources, if any, that we devote to developing manufacturing methods and advanced technologies; our ability to enter into licensing arrangements, including any unanticipated licensing arrangements that may be necessary to enable us to continue our development and clinical trial programs; the costs and expenses of filing, prosecuting and, if necessary, enforcing our patent claims, or defending against possible claims of infringement by us of third party patent or other technology rights; the cost of commercialization activities and arrangements, if any, undertaken by us; and, if and when approved, the demand for our products, which demand depends in turn on circumstances and uncertainties that cannot be fully known, understood or quantified unless and until the time of approval, including the range of indications for which any product is granted approval. 26 Table of Contents Under our current operating plan and capital budget, and based on our current cost expectations and levels of operations, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund operations at least through fiscal 2007, including substantial advancement of currently ongoing clinical trials towards FDA approval of CA4P and OXi4503, our lead clinical-stage compounds. We cannot predict with any certainty the success of any clinical trials, whether or not FDA approval will ultimately be obtained, and if obtained, whether such approval will be conditioned or take longer than expected. Due to the numerous risks and uncertainties of the drug development and FDA approval process, we cannot guarantee that our current cash, cash equivalents and capital will be sufficient to fund operations for the full time period described above. If our existing funds are not sufficient, we would be required to seek additional funding and/or take other measures to reduce expenses. In addition, we will likely have to raise substantial additional funds: if FDA approval is obtained with respect to our CA4P and OXi4503 compounds, to bring such compounds to market, including arranging for or developing manufacturing capabilities and completing marketing and other commercialization activities related to CA4P and OXi4503; to complete the development of any additional products other than the development and FDA approval process related to CA4P and OXi4503; and to bring any other potential product to market. The issuance of additional equity securities by us, if required to support these or any other purposes, would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms when needed, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms when needed, we would be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our product development programs or seek to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others, which arrangements may include a requirement that we relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products or rights related to our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. Our failure to obtain funding when and in the amounts needed and/or our acceptance of funding on terms that are not favorable to us or less favorable to us than we would ordinarily desire, would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our products are subject to extensive government regulation, which results in uncertainties and delays in the progress of our products through the clinical trial process. Our research and development activities, preclinical testing and clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Preclinical testing and clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products are and will continue to be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes of the FDA and other corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Clinical testing and the regulatory review process generally take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered during the period of product development, clinical testing and FDA regulatory review of each submitted application. Similar delays may also be encountered in foreign countries. Even after such time and expenditures, regulatory approval may not be obtained for any potential products developed by us, and a potential product, if approved in one country, may not be approved in other countries. Moreover, even if regulatory approval of a potential product is granted, such approval may impose significant limitations on the indicated uses for which that product may be marketed. Further, even if such regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections, and later discovery of previously unknown problems, such as undiscovered side effects, or manufacturing problems, may result in restrictions on such product, manufacturer or facility, including a possible withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Moreover, continued cost control initiatives by third party health care payers, including government programs such as Medicare may affect the financial ability and willingness of patients and their health care providers to utilize certain therapies which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. 27 Table of Contents The uncertainty associated with pharmaceutical reimbursement and related matters may adversely affect our business. Upon the marketing approval of any one or more of our products, if at all, sales of our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health programs, private health insurers and other third party payers. Third party payers and governmental health programs are increasingly attempting to limit and/or regulate the price of medical products and services. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, as well as other changes in governmental or in private third-party payers’ reimbursement policies may reduce or eliminate any currently expected reimbursement. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce physician usage of the product and have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive, and our products may become technologically obsolete. We are engaged in a rapidly evolving field. Competition from other pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many of those companies and institutions have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Those companies and institutions also have substantially greater experience in developing products, in conducting clinical trials, in obtaining regulatory approval and in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we do. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. We are aware of at least one other company that currently has a clinical-stage VDA for use in an oncology indication. Some of these competitive products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired therapeutic effect than products being developed by us. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective and/or cost competitive than those being developed by us, or that would render our technology and products less competitive or even obsolete. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we do, which could materially adversely affect us. We depend extensively on our patents and proprietary technology, and we must protect those assets in order to preserve our business. To date, our principal product candidates have been based on certain previously known compounds. We anticipate that the products we develop in the future may include or be based on the same or other compounds owned or produced by unaffiliated parties, as well as synthetic compounds we may discover. Although we expect to seek patent protection for any compounds we discover and/or for any specific uses we discover for new or previously known compounds, any or all of them may not be subject to effective patent protection. Further, the development of regimens for the administration of pharmaceuticals, which generally involve specifications for the frequency, timing and amount of dosages, has been, and we believe, may continue to be, important to our efforts, although those processes, as such, may not be patentable. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, protect our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. As of December 31, 2005, we were the sole assignee or co-assignee of eleven (11) granted United States patents, seventeen (17) pending United States patent applications, and granted patents and/or pending applications in several other major markets, including the European Union, Canada and Japan. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms like us generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, resulting in both an apparent inconsistency regarding the breadth of claims allowed in United States patents and general uncertainty as to their legal interpretation and enforceability. Accordingly, patent applications assigned or exclusively licensed to us may not result in patents being issued, any issued patents assigned or exclusively licensed to us may not provide us with competitive protection or may be challenged by others, and the current or future granted patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business and achieve profitability. Moreover, since some of the basic research relating to one or more of our patent 28 Table of Contents applications and/or patents was performed at various universities and/or funded by grants, one or more universities, employees of such universities and/or grantors could assert that they have certain rights in such research and any resulting products. Further, others may independently develop similar products, may duplicate our products, or may design around our patent rights. In addition, as a result of the assertion of rights by a third party or otherwise, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others in or outside of the United States. Any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in product market introductions while we attempt to design around such patents or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us or in connection with patents to which we hold licenses or in bringing suit to protect our own patents against infringement. We require employees, Scientific Advisory Board members and the institutions that perform our preclinical and clinical tests to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. Those agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not to be disclosed to third parties, except in specific circumstances. Any such agreement may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. We depend heavily on our executive officers, directors, and principal consultants, and the loss of their services would materially harm our business. We believe that our success depends, and will likely continue to depend, upon our ability to retain the services of our current executive officers, directors, principal consultants and others, particularly Joel-Tomas Citron, our Chairman of the Board, Dr. David Chaplin, our Chief Scientific Officer, and Frederick Driscoll, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we have established relationships with universities, hospitals and research institutions, which have historically provided, and continue to provide, us with access to research laboratories, clinical trials, facilities and patients. Additionally, we believe that we may, at any time and from time to time, materially depend on the services of consultants and other unaffiliated third parties. Our products may result in product liability exposure, and it is uncertain whether our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any claims. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and for commercial applications, if any, may expose us to liability claims, in the event such product candidates cause injury or disease, or result in adverse effects. These claims could be made directly by health care institutions, contract laboratories, patients or others using such products. Although we have obtained liability insurance coverage for our ongoing clinical trials, this coverage may not be in amounts sufficient to protect us from any product liability claims or product recalls which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and prospects of our company. Further, adverse product and similar liability claims could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our technology and product candidates under development. The price of our common stock is volatile, and is likely to continue to fluctuate due to reasons beyond our control. The market price of the common stock has been, and likely will continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including our or our competitors’ financial results, clinical trial and research development announcements and government regulatory action affecting our potential products in both the United States and foreign countries, have had, and may continue to have, a significant effect on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. One or more of these factors could 29 Table of Contents significantly harm our business and cause a decline in the price of our common stock in the public market. Substantially all of the shares of the Company’s Common Stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options have been registered for sale and may be sold from time to time hereafter. Such sales, as well as future sales of the Company’s Common Stock by existing stockholders, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. The price and liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock may also be significantly affected by trading activity and market factors related to the Nasdaq and Stockholm Stock Exchange markets, which factors and the resulting effects may differ between those markets. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our shareholder rights agreement and Delaware law could defer a change of our management which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated by-laws could discourage or make it more difficult to accomplish a proxy contest or other change in our management or the acquisition of control by a holder of a substantial amount of our voting stock. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish, or could deter, transactions that stockholders may otherwise consider to be in their best interests or the best interests of OXiGENE. Further, the rights issued under the shareholders rights agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 