Risk Factors Our industry is cyclical and our results of operations will be adversely affected by industry downturns. Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors. Significant reduction in automotive or truck production would have a material adverse effect on our sales to OEMs and our financial position and operating results. We are dependent on sport utility vehicle and light truck market segments. Some of our products, in particular four-wheel drive transfer cases, are currently used exclusively in four-wheel drive systems for sport utility vehicles and light trucks. For 2005, for example, sales of rear-wheel drive transfer cases represented approximately 12% of our total consolidated revenue. Any significant reduction in production in this market segment or loss of business in this market segment would have a material adverse effect on our sales to OEMs and our financial position and operating results. We face strong competition. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality, and technological innovation are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically integrated units of our major OEM customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of these companies and do not have as many financial or other resources. The competitive environment has changed dramatically over the past few years as our traditional U.S. OEM customers, faced with intense international competition, have expanded their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our businesses. We are under substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of our products. There is substantial and continuing pressure on OEMs to reduce costs, including costs of products we supply. Although OEMs have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside suppliers, a number of our major OEM customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with our products. These OEMs could elect to manufacture such products for their own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We believe that our ability to develop proprietary new products and to control our costs will allow us to remain competitive. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or maintain our gross margins on product sales to OEMs or that the trend by OEMs toward increased outsourcing will continue. Annual price reductions to OEM customers appear to have become a permanent feature of our business environment. In 2005 and 2004, the combination of price reductions to customers and cost increases for material, labor, and overhead, totaled approximately $139.6 million and $127.8 million, respectively. To maintain our profit margins, we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improve production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product designs to reduce costs and develop new products the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass through increased raw material costs to our OEM customers is limited, with cost recovery less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price reductions and increases in raw material costs. We rely on sales to several major customers. Our worldwide sales in 2005 to Ford, Volkswagen, DaimlerChrysler, and General Motors constituted approximately 16%, 13%, 12%, and 9%, respectively, of our 2005 consolidated sales. These four 15 Table of Contents customers constituted approximately 50% of our 2005 sales. Credit rating agencies rate two of these customers below investment grade. The corresponding percentages for 2004 were 21%, 10%, 14%, and 10%. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated sales in 2005 or 2004. Although we have had long-standing relationships with each of Ford, Volkswagen, DaimlerChrysler, and General Motors, and have sold a wide variety of products to various divisions of each company globally, the loss of any significant portion of our sales to any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We are sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor relations. All three of our primary North American customers, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and General Motors, have major union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. Because of domestic OEMs’ dependence on a single union, we are affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at OEMs’ facilities. Similarly, a majority of our global customers’ operations outside of North America are also represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Part of our labor force is unionized. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 24% of our U.S. hourly employees were unionized. Our two most significant domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our Muncie, Indiana plant and our Ithaca, New York plants. The Muncie agreement expires in May 2009 and the Ithaca agreement expires in October 2008. The hourly workers at our European and certain Asian facilities are also unionized. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, a prolonged dispute with our employees could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to waters, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our business, operations, and activities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws. However, the operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities as a result. Furthermore, through various acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur materials costs and liabilities relating to activities that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws that may be adopted in the future. We believe that the overall impact of compliance with regulations and legislation protecting the environment will not have a material adverse effect on our future financial position or operating results, but we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Capital expenditures and expenses in 2005 attributable to compliance with environmental laws were not material. We may incur material costs related to product warranties, environmental and regulatory matters, litigation, and other claims. We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a result, as of December 31, 2005, we may be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at 38 of these sites. 16 Table of Contents Based on information available to us, we have established an accrual in our financial statements for indicated environmental liabilities, with a balance of approximately $38.3 million at December 31, 2005. We currently expect this amount to be expended over the next three to five years. We believe that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our future financial position or operating results, either because estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not large or because liability will be shared with other potentially responsible parties. However, we cannot assure you of the ultimate outcome. We provide warranties to our customers for some of our products. Under these warranties, we may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We cannot assure you that costs and expenses associated with these product warranties will not be material, or that those costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our financial statement. Based upon information available to us, we have established an accrual in our financial statements for product warranties, with a balance of approximately $44.0 million at December 31, 2005. We are also party to, or have an obligation to defend a party to, various legal proceedings, including those described in Note 14 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although we believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or future operating results, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter or proceeding. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. We have a stated goal of increasing revenues and operating revenues at a rate greater than global vehicle production by increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal because of any of the following: (a) a significant decrease in the production of sport utility vehicles and light trucks, high content vehicles for us; (b) the failure to develop new products which will be purchased by our customers; (c) technology changes rendering our products obsolete; (d) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of components; and (e) the failure to find suitable acquisition targets or the failure to integrate operations of acquired businesses quickly and cost effectively. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions and countries, including North America, Europe, China, India, South Korea, Japan, and Brazil and sell our products worldwide. For 2005, approximately 55 percent of our sales were outside North America. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changing economic conditions, and political instability and disputes. We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth and financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 17 Table of Contents 