RISK FACTORS Investing in our shares involves various risks, including the risks described below. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information contained in this annual report before investing in our shares. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition and our liquidity. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS IF THE ULTIMATE PARENT COMPAMY EASED TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL SUPPORT, IT COULD HAS A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONDITION During the past fiscal year, the Company is financially depended on the support from the ultimate parent company, Hanny Holdings Limited ("Hanny"). The key risk is the failure of Hanny to provide such financial support, which it appears to be a decision of Hanny at its discretion, and the possible consequences to the shareholders of Company if that support is not provided. Therefore, any significant decline in the financial support given from Hanny, thereby it could has an adverse impact on our business. For more information, please see "Item 5. Operating and financial review and prospects - Liquidity And Capital Resources" in this annual report. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT SUCCESSFULLY ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY IN WHICH CASE ITS BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WOULD SUFFER During the past few years, the Company has diversified its operations into businesses outside of tire manufacturing. In addition, the Company has disposed the operations it deemed underperforming. In 2002, the Company diversified its business into travel business by investing in Wing On Travel (Holdings) Limited ("Wing On"). During 2003, the Company reduced its interest in Hangzhou Zhongce from a majority to a minority position. In June 2004, the Company entered into a conditional agreement to acquire properties interest in a parcel of land under construction in Shanghai, China, for the usage of both commercial and residential purposes. A key part of the Company's business strategy is to expand its operations through acquiring new businesses and business lines and the Company has been actively seeking new investment opportunities. However, the Company may not be able to identify and consummate new investments. To date, the Company has not consummated an investment in a new business since the investment in Wing On. Even if the Company has successfully identified and consummated new investments, the acquisition of new businesses and business lines carries substantial risk and uncertainties. Depending on the specific acquisition, there may be risks relating to the acquired business itself, risks relating to the industry in which the business operates, and risks relating to the Company itself. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FINANCE ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS OR OTHER EXPANSIONS OF OPERATIONS OR MAY INCUR FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH ANY ACQUISITION OR EXPANSION Due to the limitation of the Company's existing financial resources, the Company may experience difficulty in funding acquisitions, investments or expansion of existing operations. The Company anticipates that it would fund any such activities through advance of bank loans. The Company could incur an increase in debt or other liabilities in connection with any acquisition or other similar matter. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS An important element of our strategy is to review prospects for acquisition or strategic investments that would complement our existing companies, augment our market coverage and distribution ability or enhance our technological capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results because of possible charges to financial results for purchased technology, restructuring or impairment charges related to goodwill or amortization expenses associated with intangible assets; potential increase in our expenses and working capital requirement and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers products and businesses with our operations; diversion or our capital and management's attention to other business concerns; risks of entering markets or geographic areas in which we have limited prior experience; or potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations or inability to hire key employees necessary for expansion. DIVERSIFICATION MAY RESULT IN LOWERED RESPONSIVENESS TO CYCLICAL CHANGES OF DIFFERENT BUSINESSES Diversification of the Company's businesses will result in assets, resources and management being committed or allocated to businesses in different fields. As a result, the Company's flexibility in responding to seasonal changes or periodic fluctuations in the business cycle in a particular business operation may be limited. THE VOTING POWER TO THE COMPANY'S MAJOR SHAREHOLDER MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR THE OTHER HOLDERS TO EXERCISE INFLUENCE ON CORPORATE MATTERS OR FOR THE COMPANY TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS THAT THE PUBLIC SHAREHOLDERS MAY DEEM DESIRABLE Prior to May 19, 2006, China Strategic Holdings Limited ("CSH") directly and beneficially held all 3,000,000 shares of supervoting common stock and 1,629,200 shares of common stock and also had an indirect interest equivalent to 349,630 share of common stock. Effective May 19, 2006, CSH transferred all of those interests to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Group Dragon Investments Limited ("GDI"). As a result, GDI controls 88.8% of the voting rights of the outstanding capital stock of the Company and GDI is able to elect a majority of the Company's board of directors and will have sufficient voting control to affect corporate transactions without the concurrence of the Company's minority shareholders. In addition, GDI's voting rights tend to preclude any corporate action by shareholders or a change in control of the Company unless it is initiated or supported by GDI. Following the completion of the Group reorganization, Hanny Holdings Limited ("Hanny"), an indirect shareholder of each of CSH and GDI, reported ownership of 436,032,120 shares, or 98.92 % of the outstanding shares, of GDI, and become the ultimate parent company of the Company. For more information about the Group reorganization, see Item 4 "Information on the Company - Important Events of the Company's Business since the Beginning of 2006." AS A RESULT OF CHANGES IN THE COMPANY'S ASSETS AND SOURCES OF INCOME, THE COMPANY COULD BECOME AN INVESTMENT COMPANY FOR PURPOSES OF THE UNITED STATES INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 While the Company believes that through its subsidiaries and affiliates it is actively engaged in operating businesses, and does not meet the definition of an investment company for purposes of the United States Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act"), depending on the composition and valuation of the Company's assets and the sources of the Company's income from time to time, the Company could fall within the technical definition of the term "investment company" for purposes of the 1940 Act. If the Company were to become subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act, the Company's operations and results would be negatively impacted, including among other possible effects, the inability of the Company to raise capital through the offer and sale of its securities in the United States. The Company would be unable to continue operating as it currently does and might need to acquire or sell assets that it would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming and "investment company" as defined under the 1940 Act. CHANGES IN COMPOSITION OF THE COMPANY'S ASSETS COULD RESULT IN THE COMPANY BEING DEEMED A "PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY" WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON U.S. HOLDERS Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders of shares of a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company ("PFIC"), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of the PFIC status of the Company principally depends upon the composition of the Company's assets, including goodwill, and the amount and nature of the income of the Company, from time to time. The Company disposed of most of its operating subsidiaries, or its majority interest therein, during the past three years. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than the capital gain rate. In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the Internal Revenue Service. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. We do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2006. However, since the determination of whether we are a PFIC is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the Internal Revenue Service on our status as a PFIC. Our analysis related to 2006 is based, upon certain assumptions and methodologies that we have used, the appropriate value of our ownership interest in companies we held, and the manner in which we have allocated the value among our active assets and passive assets. We cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If there were such a challenge, we could be classified as a PFIC for 2006. With respect to 2007 and subsequent years, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this determination. The tests are impacted by changes in value of our group companies which are difficult to predict. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2007 or a subsequent year. OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO COVER THE RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL AND LOSSES The operations of our affiliates have not experienced any major accidents in the course of their businesses which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that they will not experience major accidents in the future. Although they have purchased the necessary insurances, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquake, war and flood, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by insurance policies under which they are protected. Our affiliates also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of their products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation if such losses or payments are not fully insured. FAILURE TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD HAVE A MATERIAL AND ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE ACCURACY IN REPORTING OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS OR PREVENTING FRAUD We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies' internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our company's internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 with respect to the report of management and for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 with respect to the auditor's attestation. It's possible that management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management's assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if such firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if such firm interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, during the course of such evaluation, documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we are not able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. THE FINANCIAL COSTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE BURDENS OF IMPLEMENTING THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION To date, the Company has been exempted from some of the regulations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are applicable to U.S. public companies. Except for the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, all of the provisions of that act that will apply to the Company have now been implemented. These rules require the Company to make a number of changes in some of its corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In addition, the SEC and the U.S. stock exchanges have implemented additional corporate governance requirements. Compliance with the U.S. corporate governance rules applicable to the Company will significantly increase the Company's legal, financial and accounting costs, and the Company expects these increased costs to continue in the future. RISKS FOR DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS FOCUS ON THE GREATER CHINA REGION SUBJECTS THE COMPANY AND ITS BUSINESS TO THE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN THE REGION As a result of the Company's traditional business focus on the Greater China Region, the Company's business and its financial and operating results may be affected by significant political, economic, social and cultural developments in the region. A substantial portion of the Company's results is derived from its affiliates, major businesses of which are located in China. These businesses are dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese economy, as well as Chinese government policy. As a result, the future financial condition and results of operations of the Company could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese economy, Chinese macroeconomic policy that de-emphasize the development of industries which utilize products or services of the Company's affiliates or other governmental policies, including changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades, the Chinese government has introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tightening bank lending policies and increases in bank interest rates. Any measures or actions taken by the Chinese government to control industries that utilize products or services of the Company's affiliates could restrict their business operations and adversely affect the financial positions of the Company and its affiliates. Although the Company believes that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China and that the Company and its affiliates will continue to benefit from these policies and measures, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China's political, economic and social life. In addition, the Company's financial results are significantly dependent on the economy in the region. The economy of the Greater China Region differs significantly from the economies of the United States and Western Europe in such respects as structure, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, resource allocation, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. Adverse changes in economic in China, in the policies of the Chinese government, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China. These developments could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company and its affiliates, by reducing the demand for the products and services of the Company's affiliates. As a member of the World Trade Organization, China's economic activity is expected to become more and more export driven and China's internal market is expected to see more competition through imports. The expected change in economic activity in China and the Greater China Region and a greater interdependence of the Chinese economy on the general world economy as a result of such changes could also impact the Company's financial results. RESTRICTIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR RESOURCES EFFECTIVELY Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use resources generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or other payments in Hong Kong dollars or other foreign currencies. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE RENMINBI COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our reporting currency is the Renminbi as a substantial portion of our investments are denominated in Renminbi. Our remaining assets and liabilities and all of our operation expenses are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. As a result, we may be exposed to foreign exchange risk, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate of Renminbi against other currencies. As our major assets and liabilities comprise a mixture of items that are denominated in Renminbi or Hong Kong dollars, our business and operating result may be materially affected in the event of a severe increase or decrease in the value of the Renminbi against other currencies. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in China's governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. Since January 1, 1994, the PRC government has used a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the People's Bank of China, or PBOC, publishes a daily based exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for Renminbi within a specified band around the central bank's daily exchange rate. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollars to Renminbi from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. As the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollars has been fixed by the Hong Kong government since 1983 at approximately HK$7.80 to US$1.00, through the currency-issuing banks in Hong Kong, this adjustment has resulted in an approximately 2.0% appreciation of the Renminbi against the Hong Kong dollars. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollars and other currencies. NATURAL DISASTERS IN THE GREATER CHINA REGION COULD CAUSE SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS The products of the Company's affiliates are manufactured at the factories located in the PRC. During the past years, the PRC has experienced natural disasters, including floods and fires. A disaster could cause significant damage to manufacturing factories which may not be adequately covered by insurance proceeds and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. The disaster relief and assistance in the PRC is not well developed and there can be no assurance that adequate government assistance would be available in the absence of sufficient insurance coverage. In addition, any natural disaster in the region would adversely impact the travel business of an affiliate of the Company which is focused on the Asia Pacific region. OUR RESULTS COULD BE HARMED IF WE HAVE TO COMPLY WITH NEW ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS The operations of our affiliates create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility which causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that our affiliates have violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, there is no assurance that the Chinese government will not amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our financial results could be materially and adversely affected if our affiliates were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting their operations. LEGAL SYSTEM DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GREATER CHINA REGION AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA COULD IMPACT INVESTORS Unlike common law systems in the western world, China has a civil law system based on written statutes and, therefore, decided legal cases are without binding legal effect, although they are often followed by judges as guidance. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect the interests of foreign investors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STOCK LIMITED LIQUIDITY IN THE COMPANY'S SECURITIES MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO SELL SHARES As a foreign private issuer whose business is substantially in the China and Asian market, the Company has less exposure in the U.S. capital markets than comparable U.S. issuers. In addition, the Company has a relative small public float of its securities. These and other general economic, industry or Company factors may result in low trading volumes or prices of the Company's securities. Accordingly, shareholders of the Company bear risks regarding the liquidity of the Company's shares and may not be able to sell shares in desired quantities, at desired times or desired prices or a combination thereof. POSSIBLE VOLATILITY OF SHARE PRICES WORLDWIDE MAY HAVE SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS ON THE COMPANY'S SHARE PRICE The trading price of the Company's shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Capital markets worldwide have generally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies themselves. There can be no assurance that trading prices and price earnings ratios previously experienced by the Company's common shares will be matched and maintained. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of shares in the Company, regardless of its operating performance. Shareholders and potential investors of the Company are advised to exercise caution when dealing in the securities of the Company. 