D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our shares involves various risks, including the risks described below. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information contained in this Annual Report before investing in our shares. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY, IN WHICH CASE ITS BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WOULD SUFFER During the past few years, the Company has diversified its operations into businesses outside of tire manufacturing. In addition, the Company has disposed of certain operations that it deemed to be underperforming. During 2003, the Company reduced its interest in Hangzhou Zhongce from a majority to a minority position (from 51% interest to 26% interest). During 2007, following the purchase and disposal of certain shares of Wing On, the interest of Wing On held by the Company was diluted and was accounted for as trading securities of the Company thereafter. While a key part of the Company’s business strategy is to expand its operations through acquiring new businesses and business lines and the Company has been actively seeking new investment opportunities, its revenue is driven almost entirely by its affiliate Hangzhou Zhongce (which is accounted for as an equity method affiliate in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements) and by its investment in Wing On. Despite the Company’s efforts to identify new investments, it not be able to do so and, if it does identify new investments, it may not be able to consummate them. Even if the Company has successfully identified and consummated new investments, the acquisition of new businesses and business lines carries substantial risk and uncertainties. Depending on the specific acquisition, there may be risks relating to the acquired business itself, risks relating to the industry in which the business operates and risks relating to the Company itself. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FINANCE ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS OR OTHER EXPANSIONS OF OPERATIONS OR MAY INCUR FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH ANY ACQUISITION OR EXPANSION Due to the limitation of the Company’s existing financial resources, the Company may experience difficulty in funding acquisitions, investments or expansion of existing operations. The Company anticipates that it would fund any such activities through bank loans or other debt financing. The Company could incur an increase in debt or other liabilities in connection with any acquisition or other similar matter. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS An important element of our strategy is to review prospects for acquisition or strategic investments that would complement our existing companies, augment our market coverage and distribution ability or enhance our technological capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results because of possible charges to financial results for purchased technology, restructuring or impairment charges related to goodwill or amortization expenses associated with intangible assets; potential increases in our expenses and working capital requirements and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers products and businesses with our operations; diversion or our capital and management’s attention to other business concerns; risks of entering markets or geographic areas in which we have limited prior experience; or potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations or inability to hire key employees necessary for expansion. DIVERSIFICATION MAY RESULT IN LOWERED RESPONSIVENESS TO CYCLICAL CHANGES OF DIFFERENT BUSINESSES Diversification of the Company’s businesses will result in assets, resources and management being committed or allocated to businesses in different fields. As a result, the Company’s flexibility in responding to seasonal changes or periodic fluctuations in the business cycle in a particular business operation may be limited. 6 Table of Contents AS A RESULT OF CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S ASSETS AND SOURCES OF INCOME, THE COMPANY COULD BECOME AN INVESTMENT COMPANY FOR PURPOSES OF THE UNITED STATES INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 While the Company believes that through its subsidiaries and affiliate it is actively engaged in operating businesses and does not meet the definition of an investment company for purposes of the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, depending on the composition and valuation of the Company’s assets and the sources of the Company’s income from time to time, the Company could fall within the technical definition of the term “investment company” for purposes of the 1940 Act. If the Company were to become subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act, the Company’s operations and results would be negatively impacted, including among other possible effects, the inability of the Company to raise capital through the offer and sale of its securities in the United States. The Company may be unable to continue operating as it currently does and might need to acquire or sell assets that it would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming “investment company” as defined under the 1940 Act. CHANGES IN COMPOSITION OF THE COMPANY’S ASSETS COULD RESULT IN THE COMPANY BEING DEEMED A “PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY” WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON U.S. HOLDERS Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders of shares of a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of the passive foreign investment company status of the Company principally depends upon the composition of the Company’s assets, including goodwill, and the amount and nature of the income of the Company, from time to time. The Company has no operating subsidiaries during the past few years. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than the capital gain rate. In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the Internal Revenue Service. A determination that we are a passive foreign investment company could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. We do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for 2008. However, since the determination of whether we are a passive foreign investment company is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the Internal Revenue Service on our status as a passive foreign investment company. Our analysis related to 2008 is based upon certain assumptions and methodologies that we have used, the appropriate value of our ownership interest in companies we held, and the manner in which we have allocated the value among our active assets and passive assets. We cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If there were such a challenge, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company for 2008. With respect to 2009 and subsequent years, the tests for determining passive foreign investment company status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this determination. The tests are impacted by changes in value of our group companies which are difficult to predict. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in 2009 or a subsequent year. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND TAXATION REQUIREMENTS COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We also expect to become subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we expect to commence generating revenues. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our financial results. FAILURE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COULD CAUSE NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATIONS Growing standardization, more reliance on global systems, information technology services and increased regulations lead to a risk that our information technology systems may fail. This could affect the Company’s operational performance and financial position. OUR OPERATIONS, ASSETS AND STAFF CAN BE EXPOSED TO RISKS RELATED TO EVENTS OF EXCEPTIONAL NATURE The Company’s operations, assets and staff can be exposed to risks related to events of an exceptional nature such as, but not limited to severe weather, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, political unrest and accidents. Such events could have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 Table of Contents OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO COVER THE RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL AND LOSSES To date, our affiliates have not experienced any major accidents in the course of their operations that have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that they will not experience major accidents in the future. Although they have purchased the necessary insurances, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquakes, wars and floods, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by insurance policies under which they are protected. Our affiliates also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of their products are alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation if such losses or payments are not fully insured. FAILURE TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD HAVE A MATERIAL AND ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE ACCURACY IN REPORTING OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS OR PREVENTING FRAUD Undetected control weaknesses or controls that function ineffectively represent a risk of loss or financial misstatement. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if it experiences difficulties in the implementation of internal controls, the Company’s business and operating results could be harmed, and it could fall to meet its reporting obligations. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its Annual Report that contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. The requirement of a management report on our internal control over financial reporting applies to this Annual Report for the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2008, while, pursuant to temporary rules of the SEC for non-accelerated filers, the requirement of an audit on internal control over financial reporting will only apply to our Annual Report for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2010. Although our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective except that the Company is not able to file its Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2008 within the prescribed time period, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if such firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if such firm interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we are not able to provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. THE FINANCIAL COSTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE BURDENS OF IMPLEMENTING THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION To date, the Company has been exempted from some of the regulations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that are applicable to U.S. public companies. Except for the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, all of the provisions of that act that will apply to the Company have now been implemented. These rules require the Company to make a number of changes in some of its corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In addition, the SEC and the U.S. stock exchanges have implemented additional corporate governance requirements. Compliance with the U.S. corporate governance rules applicable to the Company will significantly increase the Company’s legal, financial and accounting costs, and the Company expects these increased costs to continue in the future. 8 Table of Contents Risks for Doing Business in China ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES COULD HARMED OUR RESULTS IF THE COMPANY IS EXPOSED TO LITIGATION LIABILITY The products of the Company’s affiliate are manufactured in the PRC and some of them are sold to overseas. Anti-dumping duties are specifically intended to prevent cheap import from countries with lower material and labor costs, in particular the Far East and Eastern Europe, from damaging its community industry. For this reason, goods from the PRC often attract high rates of anti-dumping duties. In 2008, the affiliate of the Company became a defendant in an anti-dumping investigation in India. However, the uncertainties of the outcome of investigation, the scope of coverage and the long term solvency of our insurance carriers make it difficult to predict accurately the current estimates of loss. And the possibility of adverse rulings or new legislation also increases that uncertainly. Although no specific charges have been made against the Company as at the date of the report, our financial results could have a material impact if our affiliate was to increase expenditures to comply with anti-dumping duties which affecting their export sales. THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS FOCUS ON THE GREATER CHINA REGION SUBJECTS THE COMPANY AND ITS BUSINESS TO THE POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN THE REGION As a result of the Company’s traditional business focus on the Greater China Region, the Company’s business and its financial and operating results may be affected by significant political, economic, social and cultural developments in the region. A substantial portion of the Company’s results is derived from its affiliates, major businesses of which are located in China. These businesses are dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese economy and Chinese government policy. As a result, the future financial condition and results of operations of the Company could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese economy, Chinese macroeconomic policy that de-emphasize the development of industries that utilize products or services of the Company’s affiliate or other governmental policies, including changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Any measures or actions taken by the Chinese government to control industries that utilize products or services of the Company’s affiliate could restrict their business operations and adversely affect the financial positions of the Company and its affiliate. Although the Company believes that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China and that the Company and its affiliate will continue to benefit from these policies and measures, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social life. In addition, the Company’s financial results are significantly dependent on the economy in the region. The economy of the Greater China Region differs significantly from the economies of the United States and Western Europe in such respects as structure, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, resource allocation, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. Furthermore, the passed global economic downturn had has a significant impact on the region’s economic growth as it is primarily an export-oriented economy. Future adverse economic factors or changes in the policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China. These developments could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company and its affiliate by reducing the demand for the products and services of the Company’s affiliate. As a member of the World Trade Organization, China’s economic activity is expected to become more and more export driven and China’s internal market is expected to see more competition through imports. The expected change in economic activity in China and the Greater China Region and a greater interdependence of the Chinese economy on the general world economy as a result of such changes could also impact the Company’s financial results. 9 Table of Contents RESTRICTIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR RESOURCES EFFECTIVELY Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use resources generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or other payments in Hong Kong dollars or other foreign currencies. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE RENMINBI COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our reporting currency is the Renminbi as a substantial portion of our investments are denominated in Renminbi. Our remaining assets and liabilities and all of our operation expenses are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. As a result, we may be exposed to foreign exchange risk, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate of Renminbi against other currencies. As our major assets and liabilities comprise a mixture of items that are denominated in Renminbi or Hong Kong dollars, our business and operating result may be materially affected in the event of a severe increase or decrease in the value of the Renminbi against other currencies. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in China’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. Since January 1, 1994, the PRC government has used a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, publishes a daily based exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for Renminbi within a specified band around the central bank’s daily exchange rate. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollars to Renminbi from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. As the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollars has been fixed by the Hong Kong government since 1983 at approximately HK$7.80 to US$1.00, through the currency-issuing banks in Hong Kong, this adjustment has resulted in a then approximately 2.0% appreciation of the Renminbi against the Hong Kong dollars. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollars and other currencies. NATURAL DISASTERS IN THE GREATER CHINA REGION COULD CAUSE SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS The products of the Company’s affiliate are manufactured at the factories located in the PRC. During the past years, the PRC has experienced natural disasters, including floods, fires and earthquakes. A disaster could cause significant damage to manufacturing factories, which may not be adequately covered by insurance proceeds and could materially and adversely impact the business of the Company’s affiliate. The disaster relief and assistance in the PRC is not well developed and there can be no assurance that adequate government assistance would be available in the absence of sufficient insurance coverage. OUR RESULTS COULD BE HARMED IF WE HAVE TO COMPLY WITH NEW ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS The operations of our affiliate create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility that causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that our affiliate has violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, there is no assurance that the Chinese government will not amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our financial results could be materially and adversely affected if our affiliate were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting their operations. 10 Table of Contents LEGAL SYSTEM DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GREATER CHINA REGION AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA COULD IMPACT INVESTORS Unlike common law systems in the western world, China has a civil law system based on written statutes and, therefore, decided legal cases are without binding legal effect, although they are often followed by judges as guidance. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect the interests of foreign investors. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock LIMITED LIQUIDITY IN THE COMPANY’S SECURITIES MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO SELL SHARES The public trading market for our common stock is limited. Beginning in November 2002, our common stock was traded on the OTC Securities Market. Nevertheless, an established public trading market for our common stock may never develop or, if developed, it may not able to be sustained. The OTC Securities Market is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than other markets. As a foreign private issuer whose business is substantially in China and other Asian markets, the Company has less exposure in the U.S. capital markets than comparable U.S. issuers. In addition, the Company has a relative small public float of its securities. These and other general economic, industry or Company factors may result in low trading volumes or prices of the Company’s securities. Accordingly, shareholders of the Company bear risks regarding the liquidity of the Company’s shares and may not be able to sell shares in desired quantities, at desired times or desired prices or a combination thereof. POSSIBLE VOLATILITY OF SHARE PRICES WORLDWIDE MAY HAVE SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS ON THE COMPANY’S SHARE PRICE The trading price of the Company’s shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Capital markets worldwide have generally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies themselves. There can be no assurance that trading prices and price earnings ratios previously experienced by the Company’s common shares will be matched and maintained. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of shares in the Company, regardless of its operating performance. 