Item 1A. Risk Factors Our industry is cyclical and our results of operations will be adversely affected by industry downturns. Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors. Significant reduction in automotive or truck production would have a material adverse effect on our sales to original equipment manufacturers and our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are dependent on sport-utility vehicle and light-truck market segments and are affected by decreasing demand in those segments. Some of our products, in particular four-wheel drive transfer cases, are currently used in four-wheel drive systems primarily for sport-utility vehicles and light-trucks. Any significant reduction in production in this market segment or loss of business in this market segment could have a material adverse effect on our sales to original equipment manufacturers and our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We face strong competition. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality and technological innovation are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically integrated units of our major original equipment manufacturer customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of these companies and do not have as many financial or other resources. The competitive environment has changed dramatically over the past few years as our traditional U.S. original equipment manufacturer customers, faced with intense international competition, have expanded their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our businesses. We are under substantial pressure from original equipment manufacturers to reduce the prices of our products. There is substantial and continuing pressure on original equipment manufacturers to reduce costs, including costs of products we supply. Although original equipment manufacturers have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside suppliers, a number of our major original equipment manufacturer customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with our products. These original equipment manufacturers could elect to manufacture such products for their own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We believe that our ability to develop proprietary new products and to control our costs will allow us to remain competitive. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or maintain our gross margins on product sales to original equipment manufacturers or that the recent trend by original equipment manufacturers towards increased outsourcing will continue. Annual price reductions to original equipment manufacturer customers appear to have become a permanent feature of our business environment. In 2007, the combination of price reductions to customers and cost increases for material, labor and overhead, totaled approximately $136 million. To maintain our profit margins, we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improve production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product designs to reduce costs and develop new products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass through increased raw material costs to our original equipment manufacturer customers is limited, with cost recovery less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price reductions and increases in raw material costs. 14 We are sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor relations. All three of our primary North American customers, Ford, Chrysler and General Motors, have major union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. Because of domestic original equipment manufacturers’ dependence on a single union, we are affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at original equipment manufacturers’ facilities. Similarly, a majority of our global customers’ operations outside of North America are also represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Part of our labor force is unionized. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 25% of our U.S. workforce was unionized. Our two most significant domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our Muncie, Indiana plant and our Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. The Muncie agreement expires in April 2009. Workers at the New York facilities elected a new union in December 2007. It is expected that both parties will bargain in good faith beginning in the first quarter 2008. It is our expectation that an agreement will be reached though no assurances can be given. The hourly employees at certain of our international facilities are also unionized. While we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a prolonged dispute with our employees could have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our business, operations and activities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws. However, the operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities as a result. Furthermore, through various acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur materials costs and liabilities relating to activities that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws that may be adopted in the future. We believe that the overall impact of compliance with regulations and legislation protecting the environment will not have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, operating results and cash flows, but we cannot assure you that this will always be the case. Capital expenditures and expenses in 2007 attributable to compliance with environmental laws were not material. We have contingent liabilities related to environmental, product warranties, regulatory matters, litigation and other claims. We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a result, as of December 31, 2007, we may be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at 34 of these sites. We work with outside experts to determine a range of potential liability for environmental sites. The ranges for each individual site are then aggregated into a loss range for the total accrued liability. Management's estimate of the loss range for 2007 is between $14.4 million and $25.1 million. We record an accrual at the most probable amount within the range unless one cannot be determined; in which case we record the accrual at the low end of the range. Based on information available to us, we have established an accrual in our financial statements for indicated environmental liabilities, including our conditional asset retirement obligation under FIN 47, with a total balance of $15.5 million at December 31, 2007. We currently expect the substantial portion of this amount to be expended over the next three to five years. 15 We believe that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our future financial position or operating results, either because estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not large or because liability will be shared with other potentially responsible parties. However, we cannot assure you of the ultimate outcome. We provide warranties to our customers for some of our products. Under these warranties, we may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We cannot assure you that costs and expenses associated with these product warranties will not be material, or that those costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our financial statement. Based upon information available to us, we have established an accrual in our financial statements for product warranties of $70.1 million at December 31, 2007. We are also party to, or have an obligation to defend a party to, various legal proceedings, including those described in Note 14 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual Report. Although we believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or future operating results, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter or proceeding. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. We have a stated goal of increasing revenues and operating revenues at a rate greater than global vehicle production by increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal because of any of the following: (a) the failure to develop new products which will be purchased by our customers; (b) technology changes rendering our products obsolete; (c) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of components; and (d) the failure to find suitable acquisition targets or the failure to integrate operations of acquired businesses quickly and cost effectively. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions and countries, including North America, Europe, China, India, South Korea, Japan, and Brazil and sell our products worldwide. For 2007, approximately 66% of our sales were outside North America. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changing economic conditions, and political instability and disputes. See Note 20 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual Report. We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments, it could adversely affect on our growth and financial performance. We are impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post employment benefits. The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post employment benefits. To partially address this impact, we announced adjustments to certain retiree medical and pension plans to be effective January 1, 2009. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual Report. Certain defined benefit pension plans we sponsor are currently underfunded. We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual Report. 16 Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax accruals that could adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Because the results of tax audits are inherently uncertain, negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our financial performance. We rely on sales to major customers. Our worldwide sales in 2007 to Volkswagen and Ford constituted approximately 15% and 12%, respectively, of our 2007 consolidated sales. Credit rating agencies rate one of these customers below investment grade. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated sales in 2007. The loss of a major customer could adversely affect our financial performance. Economic distress of suppliers could result in disruption of our operations and have a material effect on our business. Some automotive parts suppliers continue to experience cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. These factors have increased pressure on the industry's supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. The Company receives certain of its raw materials from sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers. The inability of a supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could adversely affect our future financial performance. Increase in the cost of raw materials could harm our business. We use various raw materials in our business such as nickel, aluminum, magnesium, copper, plastic resins, molybdenum and others. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years, we have experienced increases in freight charges and energy costs as well. Substantial changes in these prices affect our operating costs, and to the extent they cannot be recouped through price increases to our customers, could reduce our profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 