Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10‑K. A wide range of factors could materially affect our future developments and performance. In addition to the factors described elsewhere in this report, management has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward‑looking statements or from our historical results. These factors, which are not all‑inclusive, could have a material adverse effect on our asset valuations, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or our ability to maintain our level of dividend distributions. This discussion of risk factors includes many forward‑looking statements. For cautions about relying on forward‑looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Forward‑Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Report immediately prior to Item 1. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Business Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: · adverse changes in economic and socioeconomic conditions; · vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; · adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; · inability to collect rent from tenants; · competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including but not limited to other real estate operating companies, publicly‑traded REITs and institutional investment funds; · reductions in the level of demand for office, hotel and apartment community space and changes in the relative popularity of properties; · increases in the supply of office, hotel and apartment community space; · fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of credit, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; · dependence on third parties to provide leasing, brokerage, property management and other services with respect to certain of our investments; · increases in expenses, including insurance costs, labor costs, utility prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies, and our inability to pass on some or all of these increases to our tenants; and · changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning, real estate tax, federal and state laws, governmental fiscal policies and the ADA. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties so as to meet our financial expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can achieve our economic objectives. 15 Table of Contents A significant portion of our properties, by aggregate net operating income and square feet, are located in California and the District of Columbia. We are dependent on the California and the District of Columbia real estate markets and economies, and are therefore susceptible to risks of events in those markets that could adversely affect our business, such as adverse market conditions, changes in local laws or regulations and natural disasters. Because our properties in California (and particularly, in the San Francisco Bay area, including Oakland, California and San Francisco, California (the “San Francisco Bay Area”)) and the District of Columbia represent a significant portion of our portfolio by aggregate net operating income and square feet, we are exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically diverse portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the California (and particularly, in the San Francisco Bay Area) and the District of Columbia economic and regulatory environments (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation and other factors) as well as natural disasters that occur in these areas (such as earthquakes, floods and other events). In addition, the State of California is regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office, lodging and apartment space in California. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate markets in California (and particularly, in the San Francisco Bay Area) or the District of Columbia, or any decrease in demand for office, lodging and apartment space resulting from the California (and particularly, in the San Francisco Bay Area) or the District of Columbia regulatory or business environments, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We may be adversely affected by any significant reductions in federal government spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Some of our properties are occupied by tenants that are U.S. federal government agencies. A significant reduction in federal government spending could decrease the likelihood that they will renew their leases with us. Further, economic conditions in the District of Columbia are significantly dependent upon the level of federal government spending in the region as a whole. In the event of a significant reduction in federal government spending, there could be negative economic changes in the District of Columbia which could adversely impact the ability of our tenants to perform their financial obligations under our leases or the likelihood of their lease renewals. As a result, such a reduction in federal government spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect demand for our properties and the overall availability and cost of credit. In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, demand for our properties and the overall availability and cost of credit may be adversely affected. No assurances can be given that the capital and credit market conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. In addition, we could be adversely affected by significant volatility in the capital and credit markets as follows: · the tenants in our office properties may experience a deterioration in their sales or other revenue, or experience a constraint on the availability of credit necessary to fund operations, which in turn may adversely impact those tenants’ ability to pay contractual base rents and tenant recoveries. Some tenants may terminate their occupancy due to an inability to operate profitably for an extended period of time, impacting our ability to maintain occupancy levels; · constraints on the availability of credit to tenants, necessary to purchase and install improvements, fixtures and equipment and to fund business expenses, could impact our ability to procure new tenants for spaces currently vacant in existing office properties or properties under development; and · any joint venture or other co‑investment partners could experience difficulty obtaining financing in the future for the same reasons discussed above. Their inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, could negatively impact our ability to acquire additional properties. 16 Table of Contents Adverse economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the office, hotel and apartment communities industries. The United States has been recovering from a post‑recessionary slow‑growth environment, which has experienced historically high levels of unemployment or underemployment. Relative uncertainty over the depth and duration of the economic recovery may have a negative impact on the office, lodging and apartment communities industries. There is some general consensus among economists that the economy in the United States emerged from a recessionary environment in 2009, but high unemployment or underemployment levels have only begun to subside recently. As a result, our office, lodging and apartment properties, among other things, may experience reductions in revenue resulting from lower rental rates and occupancy levels. Accordingly, our financial results could be impacted by the economic environment, and future financial results and growth could be further harmed until a more expansive and consistent national economic environment is prevalent. A continued weaker than anticipated economic recovery, or a return to a recessionary national economic environment, could result in low or decreased levels of business and consumer travel, negatively impacting the lodging industry. Moreover, in the event of another recession, the office, hotel and apartment communities could experience reductions in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations and increases in operating costs such as advertising and turnover expenses. Such an economic outcome could also negatively impact our tenants’ future growth prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Investments in office buildings that have government tenants are subject to the risks associated with conducting business with the U.S. federal government. Investments in office buildings that have government tenants are subject to risks associated with conducting business with the U.S. federal government. Congressional action to reduce budgetary spending by the United States could limit or reduce the funding of government agencies or other organizations. Adverse developments and/or conditions affecting government tenants could reduce demand for space or force such tenants to curtail operations, which could result in less rent to us and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The risks of conducting business with the U.S. federal government also include the risk of civil and criminal fines and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance at high profile sites. The U.S. Government’s “green lease” policies may adversely affect us. In recent years the U.S. Government has instituted “green lease” policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®‑CI, certification in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the General Services Administration to give preference to buildings for lease that have received an “Energy Star” label. Obtaining such certifications and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants, which could result in less rent to us, and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Changes in the United States’ and state governments’ requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. Some of our current rents come from government tenants. Government agencies have been seeking to increase their space utilization under their leases, including reducing the amount of square footage per employee at leased properties, which has reduced the demand for government leased space. If a significant number of such events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be adversely affected. Tenant concentration increases the risk that cash flow could be interrupted. We are, and expect that we will continue to be, subject to a degree of tenant concentration at certain of our properties and/or across multiple properties. In the event that a tenant occupying a significant portion of one or more of our properties or whose rental income represents a significant portion of the rental revenue at such property or properties were to experience financial weakness or file bankruptcy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. 17 Table of Contents We have incurred indebtedness and expect to incur significant additional indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions, and which may expose us to interest rate fluctuation risk and the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2015, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $710.1 million, inclusive of debt associated with assets held for sale. We expect to incur significant additional indebtedness, including through the use and potential expansion of our existing unsecured credit facility or the use of one or more new credit facilities, to fund future acquisitions and development activities and operational needs. The degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. Payments of principal and interest on our borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties and/or pay distributions. The incurrence of substantial outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed by our debt agreements, could have significant other adverse consequences, including the following: · our cash flows may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; · we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our liquidity for acquisitions or operations; · we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our existing indebtedness; · we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; · we may violate restrictive covenants in our debt documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; · we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties and take possession of any collateral that secures their loans; and · our default under any of our indebtedness with cross‑default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If any one of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without the accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate. In addition, from time to time, we may pay mortgage loans or finance and refinance our properties in a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. In addition, if rising interest rates cause us to need additional capital to repay our indebtedness, we may need to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Prolonged interest rate increases also could negatively impact our ability to make investments with positive economic returns. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our current indebtedness. Upon maturity of indebtedness incurred by us, there is no assurance that replacement financing can be obtained or, if it is obtained, that interest rates and other terms would be as favorable as the original indebtedness. Inability to refinance indebtedness on favorable terms may compel us to attempt to dispose of one or more properties, including any 18 Table of Contents properties that may be secured by such debt, on terms less favorable than might be obtained at a later date. In addition, if any secured indebtedness matured before refinancing could be procured, the lender could foreclose on the applicable collateral and we might suffer losses as a result of that foreclosure. Further, lenders may require insurance against terrorist acts, particularly for large properties in urban areas, and the unavailability of such insurance may make it difficult to finance or refinance investments. The factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant office space. As of December 31, 2015, 12.1% of the rentable square footage of our office portfolio was available for lease. As of December 31, 2015, 11.3% of the occupied square footage in our office portfolio was scheduled to expire in 2016. Local economic environment may make the renewal of these leases more difficult, or renewal may occur at rental rates equal to or below existing rental rates. As a result, portions of our office properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time. In addition, we may have to offer substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, concessions, early termination rights or below‑market renewal options to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. The factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Short‑term leases in our multifamily portfolio may expose us to the effects of declining market rents and we may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant units. Substantially all of our leases in our multifamily portfolio are for a term of one year or less. Therefore, rental revenues from our multifamily portfolio may be negatively impacted by local and/or market declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. In addition, rental units may remain vacant for extended periods of time. As a result, we may have to offer substantial rent abatements, concessions, or below market renewal options to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. The factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the lodging industry. The success of our hotel properties depends largely on the property operators’ ability to adapt to dominant trends in the lodging industry as well as disruptions such as greater competitive pressures, increased consolidation, industry overbuilding, dependence on consumer spending patterns and changing demographics, the introduction of new concepts and products such as Airbnb®, Homeaway® and VRBO®, availability of labor, price levels and macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions. The success of a particular hotel brand, the ability of a hotel brand to fulfill any obligations to operators of our business, and trends in the lodging industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in U.S. gross domestic product. The lodging industry is also sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. The lodging industry could experience a significant decline in occupancy and average daily rates due to a reduction in business and/or leisure travel. General economic conditions, increased fuel costs, natural disasters and terrorist attacks are a few factors that could affect an individual’s willingness to travel. We face significant competition. Our office portfolio competes with a number of developers, owners and operators of office real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and may not be able to replace them, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below‑market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our hotel portfolio competes for guests primarily with other hotels in the immediate vicinity of our hotels and secondarily with other hotels in the geographic market of our hotels. An increase in the number of competitive hotels in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on the occupancy, average daily rate and revenue per available room of our hotels in that area. There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with our apartment communities in attracting residents. These include other apartment communities and single‑family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the communities are located. If the demand for our apartment communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities, rental rates may drop, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from other real estate investment funds, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. This competition may result in an increase in costs and prices of apartment communities that we acquire and/or develop. We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business and, even if consummated, we may fail to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties. We plan to acquire additional properties as opportunities arise. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them is subject to the following significant risks: · we may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors with better access to less expensive capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly‑traded REITs and investment funds; · we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; · competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase purchase prices; · acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; · we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; · we may need to spend more money than anticipated to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; · we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate; · we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations; · we may suffer higher than expected vacancy rates and/or lower than expected rental rates; and · we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities against the former owners of the properties. If we cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our goals or expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets. Each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in the markets in which our properties are located are also applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of certain new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into those markets. We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could have a material adverse 20 Table of Contents effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Our stockholders will not have any approval rights regarding expansion or change in strategies or specific future investments. We have expanded and may continue to expand our operations into new real estate‑related activities, including, without limitation, (i) originating and/or investing in a variety of loan products, including, but not limited to, mezzanine loans, commercial real estate loans and other types of loans and/or (ii) real estate development activities to create substantially stabilized properties. See “Item 1––Business––Lending Segment.” Stockholders will not have any approval rights with respect to expansion or change in strategies or future investments. Stockholders will therefore be relying on our Advisor with respect to future investments to be made by us. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new real estate activities or our changes in strategies or future investments turn out to be unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We may make investments outside of the United States, which would subject us to additional risks that may affect our operations unfavorably. We may invest some of our capital outside of the United States. Our investments in foreign countries could be affected unfavorably by changes in exchange rates due to political and economic factors, including inflation. Because non‑U.S. companies are not subject to uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and requirements comparable with those applicable to U.S. companies, there may be different types of, and lower quality, information available about non‑U.S. companies and their assets. This may affect our ability to underwrite and evaluate proposed investments in foreign countries or to obtain appropriate financial reports relating to such investments. In addition, with respect to certain countries, there may be an increased potential for corrupt business practices, or the possibility of expropriation or confiscatory taxation, political or social instability, or diplomatic developments that could affect our investments in those countries. Moreover, individual economies could differ unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations and capital reinvestment. As a result of the factors described in this paragraph, any investments made outside of the United States may be subject to a higher degree of risk; there can also be no assurance that any such investments will generate returns comparable to investment made in the United States. We are subject to risks and liabilities unique to joint venture relationships. We may contemplate acquisitions of properties through joint ventures and sales to institutions of partial ownership of properties that we wholly own. Joint venture investments involve certain risks, including for example: · disputes with joint venture partners might affect our ability to develop, operate or dispose of a property; · the refinancing of unconsolidated joint venture debt may require additional equity commitments on our part; · joint venture partners may control or share certain approval rights over major decisions or might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; · we may be forced to fulfill the obligations of a joint venture or of joint venture partners who default on their obligations including those related to debt or interest rate swaps; and · there may be conflicts of interests because our joint venture partners may have varying interests such as different needs for liquidity, different assessments of the market, different tax objectives or ownership of competing interests in properties in our markets. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or maintain our level of dividend distributions. 21 Table of Contents We may become exposed to risks associated with property development. We may engage in development and redevelopment activities with respect to certain of our properties. To the extent that we do so, we will be subject to certain risks, including, without limitation: · the availability and pricing of financing on favorable terms or at all; · the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals; · contractor and subcontractor disputes, strikes, labor disputes or supply disruptions; and · the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks beyond our control, such as weather or labor conditions, or materials shortages). These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Real estate investments are generally illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties when we desire, which could adversely affect us. Our real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment will generally occur upon disposition or refinance of the underlying property. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition or be able to refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time. We may also not be able to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from: (i) weak market conditions, (ii) lack of an established market for a property, (iii) changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, (iv) changes in national or international economic conditions, such as the global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, and (v) changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Furthermore, certain properties may be adversely affected by contractual rights, such as rights of first offer. We may be unable to secure funds for our future long‑term liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Our long‑term liquidity needs will consist primarily of funds necessary to acquire investments and pay for development or repositioning of properties, non‑recurring capital expenditures and refinancing of indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds on hand or may not be able to obtain additional financing to cover all of these long‑term cash requirements, although it should be noted that we do not currently have any significant property development or repositioning projects planned. The nature of our business, and the requirements imposed by REIT rules that we distribute a substantial majority of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis in the form of dividends, may cause us to have substantial liquidity needs over the long‑term. We will seek to satisfy our long‑term liquidity needs through one or more of the following methods: (i) offerings of shares of common stock, preferred shares, senior unsecured securities, and/or other equity and debt securities; (ii) the use and potential expansion of our existing unsecured credit facility and term loan; (iii) the addition of senior recourse or non-recourse debt using target acquisitions as well as existing investments as collateral; (iv) the sale of existing investments; and/or (v) cash flows from operations. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional funding for our long‑term liquidity needs, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both, which may cause us to sell assets at a time when we would not otherwise do so and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Our business operations in California, New York, North Carolina, Texas and the District of Columbia are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, wind, blizzards, floods, landslides, drought and fires. These adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to the properties in our portfolio, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of our properties, by aggregate net operating income and square feet, in California and the 22 Table of Contents District of Columbia. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters. We carry earthquake insurance on our properties in California in an amount and with deductibles and limitations that we deem to be appropriate. However, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes in California. Furthermore, we may not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by war or certain environmental conditions, such as mold or asbestos. In addition, our title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, and we do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage if the market value of our portfolio increases. As a result of the factors described above, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience for any reason. We may also discontinue insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Further, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the properties were irreparable. In addition, our properties may not be able to be rebuilt to their existing height or size at their existing location under current land‑use laws and policies. In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements. Any of the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Terrorism and war could harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and the District of Columbia on September 11, 2001 and in Boston on April 15, 2013, and other acts of terrorism or war may have a negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks in the United States and elsewhere may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. In addition, the public perception that certain locations are at greater risk for attack, such as major airports, ports, and rail facilities, may decrease the demand for and the value of our properties near these sites. A decrease in demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re‑lease our properties at these sites at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Such terrorist attacks could have an adverse impact on our business even if they are not directed at our properties. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and our insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co‑payments. Although we maintain terrorism insurance coverage on our portfolio, the amount of our terrorism insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses inflicted by terrorism and therefore could expose us to significant losses and have a negative impact on our operations. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under some of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on or migrating to or from its property. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site. These laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination. The presence of, or contamination resulting from, any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages. For example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos‑containing materials. In other cases, some of our properties may have been impacted by contamination from past operations or from off‑site sources. As a result, in connection with our current or former ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties and damages under environmental laws. Although most of our properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with a 23 Table of Contents property. Unless required by applicable law, we may decide not to further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments. Further, these or other environmental studies may not identify all potential environmental liabilities or accurately assess whether we will incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs, and we may find it difficult to sell any affected properties. Compliance with the ADA and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures that could significantly reduce the cash available for dividends. Our properties are subject to regulation under federal laws, such as the ADA, pursuant to which all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties or future properties is not in compliance with the ADA, we might be required to take remedial action, which would require us to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Noncompliance with the ADA could also result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local earthquake, fire and life safety requirements. If we were to fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulatory requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions could be materially adversely affected. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our Advisor’s and Manager’s information technology (“IT”) networks and related systems could adversely affect us. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e‑mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our Advisor’s or Manager’s IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our Advisor’s and Manager’s IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day‑to‑day operations (including managing our building systems), and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. There can be no assurance that efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our Advisor’s or Manager’s IT networks and related systems could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Various changes to GAAP are constantly being considered, some of which could materially impact our reported financial condition and/or results of operations. Also, to the extent publicly traded companies in the United States would be required in the future to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of the current GAAP, this change in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We have entered, or may in the future enter, into hedging transactions that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future and materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we have entered, or may in the future enter, into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument), which could in turn result in economic losses to us. In addition, certain of the hedging instruments that we may enter into could involve risks since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or our clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in significant losses. Furthermore, we intend to record any derivative and hedging transactions we enter into in accordance with GAAP. However, we may choose not to pursue, or fail to qualify for, hedge accounting treatment relating to such derivative instruments. As a result, our operating results may suffer because losses, if any, on these derivative instruments may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction or item. Any losses sustained as a result of our hedging transactions would be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Risks Related to Our Lending Segment Our lending segment exposes us to a high degree of risk associated with investing in real estate. The performance and value of our loans depends upon many factors beyond our control. The ultimate performance and value of our loans are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of the properties which collateralize our loans, including the property owner’s ability to operate the property with sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements. The performance and value of the properties collateralizing our loans may be adversely affected by: •changes in national or regional economic conditions; •changes in real estate market conditions due to changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or property market characteristics; •competition from other properties; •changes in interest rates and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets; •the ongoing need for capital repairs and improvements; •increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including utilities); •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; or a decrease in the availability of or an increase in the cost of insurance; •adverse changes in zoning laws; •the impact of environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and •other factors that are beyond our control or the control of the commercial property owners. In the event that any of the properties underlying our loans experience any of the foregoing events or occurrences, the value of, and return on, such loans may be negatively impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. 25 Table of Contents There are significant risks related to loans originated under our SBA 7(a) Program. Many of the borrowers under our SBA 7(a) Program are privately-owned businesses. There is typically no publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we must rely on our own due diligence to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by banks. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely impacted by numerous factors, including a downturn in its industry or other negative local or macro-economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. In addition, small businesses typically depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of people for their success. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have an adverse impact on the operations of the small business. Small companies are typically more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions and economic downturns and often need additional capital to maintain the business, expand or compete. These factors may have an impact on the ultimate recovery of our loans receivable from such businesses. Loans to small businesses, therefore, involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. The factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Commercial real estate loans and our real estate owned (“REO”) are typically illiquid and their value may decrease. Our commercial real estate loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure are typically illiquid investments. Therefore, we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. As a result, the fair market value of these investments may decrease in the future and losses may result. The illiquid nature of our loans may adversely affect our ability to dispose of such loans at times when it may be advantageous or necessary for us to liquidate such investments, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Our lending segment has an industry concentration, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our revenue from the lending segment (included in discontinued operations) is generated from loans collateralized by hospitality properties. At December 31, 2015, our loans were 76% concentrated in the hospitality industry. Any factors that negatively impact the hospitality industry, including recessions, severe weather events (such as hurricanes, blizzards, floods, etc.), depressed commercial real estate markets, travel restrictions, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events or the introduction of new concepts and products such as Airbnb®, Homeaway® and VRBO®, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or ability to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Establishing loan loss reserves entails significant judgment and may negatively impact our results of operations. We have a quarterly review process to identify and evaluate potential exposure to loan losses. The determination of whether significant doubt exists and whether a loan loss reserve is necessary requires judgment and consideration of the facts and circumstances existing at the evaluation date. Additionally, further changes to the facts and circumstances of the individual borrowers, the limited service hospitality industry and the economy may require the establishment of additional loan loss reserves and the effect to our results of operations would be adverse. If our judgments underlying the establishment of our loan loss reserves are not correct, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Whenever our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loans, losses may be relatively substantial. Our loans are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, any or all of which could result in losses. Our commercial mortgage loans and loans originated pursuant to the SBA 7(a) Program are collateralized by income-producing properties and typically have personal guarantees. These loans are predominantly to operators of limited service hospitality properties. As a result, these operators are subject to risks associated with the hospitality industry, including recessions, severe weather events, depressed commercial real estate markets, travel restrictions, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events. Our real estate loans are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a 26 Table of Contents loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things, tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of a loan default, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral multiplied by our percentage ownership and the unguaranteed portion of the principal and accrued interest on the loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of the borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed collateralized only to the extent of the value of the underlying property at the time of the bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court). In addition to losses related to collateral deficiencies, during the foreclosure process we may incur costs related to the protection of our collateral including unpaid real estate taxes, legal fees, franchise fees, insurance and operating shortfalls to the extent the property is being operated by a court-appointed receiver. Foreclosure and bankruptcy are complex and sometimes lengthy processes that are subject to federal and state laws and regulations. An action to foreclose on a property is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of a default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due under the note. Further, borrowers have the option of seeking federal bankruptcy protection which could delay the foreclosure process. In conjunction with the bankruptcy process, the terms of the loan agreements may be modified. Typically, delays in the foreclosure process will have a negative impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition due to direct and indirect costs incurred and possible deterioration of the value of the collateral. After foreclosure has been completed, a lack of funds or capital may force us to sell the underlying property resulting in a lower recovery even though developing the property prior to a sale could result in a higher recovery. As part of our commercial real estate loan origination business, we have originated and expect to originate mezzanine loans, which are loans made to entities that have subsidiaries which own real property and are secured by pledges of such entity’s equity ownership in its property-owning subsidiary. Mezzanine loans are by their nature structurally and legally subordinated to more senior property-level financings. Accordingly, if a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or if there is a default by our borrower’s subsidiary on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the property-level debt and other senior debt is paid in full. We may also retain, from whole loans we originate, subordinate interests referred to as B Notes. B Notes are commercial real estate loans secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and subordinated to a senior interest, referred to as an A Note. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B Note owners after payment to the A Note owners. Moreover, under the terms of intercreditor arrangements governing mezzanine loans, B Notes and other similar subordinated loans originated by us, we may have to satisfy certain liquidity and capital requirements before we can step into a borrower’s position after it has defaulted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy such requirements, resulting in potentially lower recovery. After a foreclosure on the pledged equity interest has been completed, a lack of funds may force us to sell the underlying property without developing it further (which sale may result in a lower recovery) instead of injecting funds into and developing the property prior to a sale (which may result in a higher recovery). As a result of the factors described above, defaults on commercial real estate loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. 27 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive market for investment opportunities and future competition for our commercial real estate collateralized loans may limit our ability to originate or dispose of our target loans and could also affect the yield of these investments. We are in competition with a number of entities for the types of commercial real estate collateralized loans that we originate. These entities include, among others, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks and financial institutions. Some of these competitors may be substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some of these competitors may also have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us currently. In addition, many of our competitors may not be subject to operating constraints associated with REIT qualification or maintenance of exclusions from registration under the Investment Company Act. Furthermore, competition may further limit our ability to generated desired returns. Due to this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We may be subject to lender liability claims. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or our other creditors or stockholders. We cannot assure prospective investors that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. Curtailment of our ability to utilize the SBA 7(a) Program by the federal government could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon the federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. There can be no assurance that the program will be maintained or that loans will continue to be guaranteed at current levels. In addition, there can be no assurance that First Western will be able to maintain its status as a Preferred Lender or that we can maintain our SBA 7(a) license. If we cannot continue originating and selling government guaranteed loans at current levels, we could experience a decrease in future servicing spreads and earned premiums. From time-to-time the SBA has reached its internal budgeted limits and ceased to guarantee loans for a stated period of time. In addition, the SBA may change its rules regarding loans or Congress may adopt legislation or fail to approve a budget that would have the effect of discontinuing, reducing availability of funds for, or changing loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small businesses that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans. First Western has been granted national PLP status and originates, sells and services small business loans and is authorized to place SBA guarantees on loans without seeking prior SBA review and approval. Being a national lender, PLP status allows First Western to expedite loans since First Western is not required to present applications to the SBA for concurrent review and approval. The loss of PLP status could adversely impact our marketing efforts and ultimately loan origination volume which could negatively impact our results of operations. The loss of PLP status could also adversely impact our ability to sell the lending segment. We may not be able to successfully deconsolidate our lending segment, which may result in an adverse effect to our business or the way our company is perceived. Our Board of Directors approved a plan for the lending segment that, when completed, will result in the deconsolidation of the lending segment. We are currently incurring costs and expenses relating to the plan. While we sold substantially all of our commercial mortgage loans that are associated with the lending segment to an unrelated third party in December 2015, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consummate the deconsolidation of our lending segment as currently contemplated under the plan approved by our Board of Directors or at all. Our failure to deconsolidate the lending segment could have an adverse effect on our business or the way our company is perceived to analysts, investors or others. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are qualified as such, or that we will remain qualified as such in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we could face serious tax consequences that could substantially reduce our funds available for payment of dividends for each of the years involved because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and could be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; · unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we are disqualified; and · all dividends would be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits potentially eligible as “qualified dividends” subject to the applicable income tax rate. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce our cash available for, among other things, our operations and distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, result of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non‑deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. These sources, however, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third‑party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current debt levels, the market price of our Common Stock, and our current and potential future earnings. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Complying with REIT requirements may affect our profitability and may force us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature and diversification of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy the asset and income tests or to qualify under certain statutory relief provisions. We also may be required to make distributions to stockholders at 29 Table of Contents disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a result, having to comply with the distribution requirement could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions; (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms; or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt. Accordingly, satisfying the REIT requirements could have an adverse effect on our business results, profitability and ability to execute our business plan. Moreover, if we are compelled to liquidate our investments to meet any of these asset, income or distribution tests, or to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with one or more of the requirements applicable to REITs or may be subject to a 100% tax on any resulting gain if such sales constitute prohibited transactions. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates are generally subject to tax at preferential rates. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, to the extent that the preferential rates continue to apply to regular corporate qualified dividends, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non‑REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the per share trading price of our securities. The power of the Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our organizational documents permit our Board of Directors to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if the Board of Directors determines that it is not in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. In such a case, we would become subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on our net taxable income and we would no longer be required to distribute most of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which could have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. Subject to certain restrictions, a REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary generally will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s‑length basis. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to normal corporate income taxes. We continuously monitor the value of our investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). The aggregate value of our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities is less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities) as of December 31, 2015. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s‑length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There are no distribution requirements applicable to the taxable REIT subsidiaries and after‑tax earnings may be retained. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non‑arm’s‑length transactions. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise 30 Table of Contents could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then‑prevailing market price of our Common Stock, including: · “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and · “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two‑thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our Board of Directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our Board of Directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt‑outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement for our operating partnership and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. We are controlled by an affiliate of CIM Group. Urban II, an affiliate of CIM Group, beneficially owns shares of our Common Stock that, together with shares held by other affiliates of CIM Group and our executive officers and directors, currently represents approximately 98.2% of the total voting power of the Company. For so long as affiliates of CIM Group continue to own a significant percentage of our stock, CIM Group will be able to significantly influence the composition of our Board of Directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. Accordingly, CIM Group will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. In particular, CIM Group will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of the Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of the Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of Common Stock as part of a sale of the Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our Common Stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC and, as a result, qualify for, and currently rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Affiliates of CIM Group control a majority of the total voting power in the election of our directors. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (i) a board be comprised of a majority of “independent directors,” as defined under the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, (ii) a compensation committee be comprised entirely of independent directors and (iii) nomination decisions be made either by independent directors constituting a majority of the independent directors in a vote in which only independent directors participate, or a nomination committee comprised entirely of independent directors. As of December 31, 2015, we availed ourselves of these exemptions. As a result, our Board of Directors is not comprised of a majority of independent directors, we do not have a compensation committee, and our nomination decisions are made by our entire Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors in our Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. 31 Table of Contents Our future success depends on the Manager and the Advisor, their respective key personnel and their access to the investment professionals of CIM Group. We may not find suitable replacements if such key personnel or investment professionals leave the employment of the Manager, the Advisor or other applicable affiliates of CIM Group or if such key personnel or investment professionals otherwise become unavailable to us. We rely on the resources of the Manager to manage our day‑to‑day operations other than the operations of CIM Urban, and CIM Urban relies on the resources of the Advisor to manage its day‑to‑day operations. We rely on the Manager to provide management and administration services to us, and CIM Urban relies completely on the Adviser to provide CIM Urban with investment advisory services. Our executive officers also serve as officers or employees of the Manager and/or the Advisor or other applicable affiliates of CIM Group. The Manager and the Advisor have significant discretion as to the implementation of investment and operating policies and strategies on behalf of us and CIM Urban. Accordingly, we believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts, experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the officers and key personnel of the Manager, the Advisor and the other applicable affiliates of CIM Group. The departure of any of these officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We also depend on access to, and the diligence, skill and network of, business contacts of the professionals within CIM Group and the information and deal flow generated by its investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The departure of any of these individuals, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or principals of CIM Group, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to CIM Group’s investment professionals or its information and deal flow. The Manager and the Advisor and certain of their affiliates manage or otherwise provide services to our business and our subsidiaries’ businesses pursuant to the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement. Notwithstanding the fact that these agreements provide broad discretion and authority and the payment of fees to the Manager or the Advisor, as applicable, the Master Services Agreement may be assigned by the Manager in certain circumstances without our consent and neither agreement may be terminated by us, except in the case of the Master Services Agreement, in limited circumstances for cause, either or both of which may have a material adverse effect on us. We and our lending subsidiaries are parties to the Master Services Agreement pursuant to which the Manager has the right to provide or designate third parties to provide various management and administrative services to us and all of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We are obligated to pay the Manager the Base Service Fee for the provision of Base Services and market rate transaction fees for transactional and other services that the Manager elects to provide to us. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Services Agreement, the Manager has the right to provide any transactional services to us that we would otherwise engage a third party to provide. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Services Agreement, the Manager may also recommend new business opportunities to us for our approval and will make a recommendation as to whether each such new business should be internally managed or externally managed and if externally managed, the external manager and the terms of the management agreement. If the proposed external manager is to be the Manager, our independent directors must approve the decision to make such new business externally managed and the terms of the applicable management agreement. If such new business is to be internally managed, the Manager will oversee the hiring of personnel and the implementation of internal management as a transactional service. The Master Services Agreement continues in full force and effect until December 31, 2018, and thereafter will renew automatically each year. We may generally only terminate the Master Services Agreement for the Manager’s material breach of the Master Services Agreement, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct or if in certain limited circumstances, a change of control of the Manager occurs that our independent directors determine to be materially detrimental to us and our subsidiaries as a whole. We do not have the right to terminate the Master Services Agreement solely for the poor performance of our operations or any investment made by us on the recommendation of the Manager. In addition, CIM Urban does not have the right to terminate the Investment Management Agreement under any circumstances. Moreover, any removal of Urban GP Manager as manager of CIM Urban GP pursuant to the Master Services Agreement or the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement will not affect the rights of the Manager under the Master Services Agreement or the Advisor under the Investment Management Agreement. Accordingly, the Manager will 32 Table of Contents continue to provide the Base Services and receive the Base Service Fee, and the Manager or the applicable service provider will continue to provide the transactional services and receive related transaction fees, under the Master Services Agreement, and the Advisor will continue to receive the management fee under the Investment Management Agreement. Further, the Master Services Agreement may be assigned by the Manager without our consent in the case of an assignment by the Manager to an affiliate or an entity that is a successor through merger or acquisition of the business of the Manager. In certain circumstances, including the merger or other acquisition of the business of the Manager, the amount of fees being paid pursuant to the agreements or the poor performance by the Manager, we may desire to terminate one or more of the management agreements. As a result of the limited termination rights under these agreements, we may not have the right to terminate such agreement(s), which could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1–– Business—Master Services Agreement.” The Manager’s and Advisor’s fees are payable regardless of our performance, which may reduce their incentive to devote time and resources to our portfolio. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement, the Manager is entitled to receive the Base Service Fee, regardless of our performance, and is also entitled to receive fees related to the provision of transactional and other services. The Advisor is entitled to receive an asset management fee based upon the adjusted fair value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future. See “Item 1–– Business—Investment Management Agreement.” The Manager’s and the Advisor’s entitlement to substantial non‑performance based compensation might reduce their incentive to devote their time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. The Advisor’s fees are based on the adjusted fair value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future. This fee arrangement may lead the Advisor to recommend riskier investments regardless of their long‑term performance in an effort to maximize its compensation. The Advisor’s fees are based on the adjusted fair value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future, which may provide incentive for the Advisor to invest in assets that are riskier investments regardless of their performance. Because these fees are based on the adjusted fair value, the Advisor will benefit when CIM Urban, or we on its behalf, incurs debt or uses leverage. Consequently, the Advisor may recommend investments that are not necessarily in the best interest of our stockholders in order to maximize its compensation. Each of the Manager and the Advisor undertakes its services to us under very broad mandates; in particular, the Advisor has broad discretion with respect to CIM Urban’s investments, and the Board of Directors does not approve each investment, disposition and financing decision made by the Advisor, which may result in CIM Urban’s making riskier investments than those currently comprising its investment portfolio. The Manager, under the Master Services Agreement, and the Advisor, under the Investment Management Agreement, have broad discretion and authority over our day‑to‑day operations and investments. While our directors periodically review the performance of our businesses, they do not review all decisions made by the Manager and the Advisor, including proposed investments, dispositions or the implementation of other strategic initiatives. In addition, in conducting reviews of our businesses, our directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by the Manager or the Advisor, as the case may be. The Manager and the Advisor may cause us to enter into significant transactions or undertake significant activities that may be difficult or impossible to unwind or exit by the time they are reviewed by our directors. Each of the Manager and the Advisor has great latitude in the implementation of our strategies, including determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions. Decisions made and investments entered into by the Advisor may not fully reflect the best interests of our stockholders. The Advisor may change its investment process, or elect not to follow it, without stockholder consent at any time, which may adversely affect our investments. The Advisor may change its investment process and philosophy without stockholder consent at any time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Advisor will follow its investment process in relation to the identification and acquisition or origination of prospective investments. Changes in the Advisor’s investment process and/or philosophy may result in inferior, among other things, due diligence and transaction standards, which may adversely affect the performance of our assets and investment portfolio. 33 Table of Contents The Advisor, the Manager and their respective affiliates may engage in additional management or investment opportunities which compete with us and our subsidiaries, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. The Investment Management Agreement with the Advisor and the Master Services Agreement with the Manager do not prevent the Advisor and the Manager, as applicable, and their respective affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with us and our subsidiaries. The Advisor, the Manager and their respective affiliates may engage in additional management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with ours, and may thus face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to these other investments. Allocation of investment opportunities is at the discretion of the Advisor and/or the Manager and there is no guarantee that this allocation would be made in the best interest of our stockholders. There may be conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities to CIM Urban and other funds, investment vehicles and ventures managed by the Advisor. For example, the Advisor currently serves as the investment manager of CIM VI (Urban REIT), LLC and its parallel funds (collectively, “CIM VI”), a private fund formed to invest in substantially stabilized real estate and real estate‑related assets located in urban areas that CIM Group has already qualified for investment. There is a significant overlap in the assets and investment strategies between us and CIM VI, and many of the same investment personnel will provide services to both entities. Further, the Advisor and its affiliates may form funds or sponsor investment vehicles and ventures that have overlapping objectives with CIM Urban and therefore may compete with CIM Urban for investment opportunities. The ability of the Advisor, the Manager and their officers and employees to engage in other business activities, including the management of other investment vehicles sponsored by CIM Group, may reduce the time the Advisor and the Manager spend managing our activities. Certain of our directors and executive officers may face conflicts of interest related to positions they hold with the Advisor, the Manager, CIM Group and their affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Some of our directors and executive officers are also part‑owners, officers and/or directors of the Advisor, the Manager, CIM Group and their affiliates. As a result, they may owe fiduciary duties to these various other entities and their equity owners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties they owe to us and our stockholders. Further, these multiple responsibilities may create conflicts of interest for these individuals if they are presented with opportunities that may benefit us and our other affiliates. The individuals may be incentivized to allocate investment opportunities to other entities rather than to us. Their loyalties to other affiliated entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, strategy and investment opportunities. The business of CIM Urban is managed by Urban GP Manager and we agreed in the Master Services Agreement to appoint an affiliate of CIM Group as the manager of the general partner of CIM Urban; in addition, the general partner of CIM Urban can be removed from that position under certain circumstances as provided in the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement, we agreed to appoint an affiliate of CIM Group as the manager of the general partner of CIM Urban. While currently that designated entity, Urban GP Manager, is an affiliate of CIM Group, there can be no assurances that a different entity would not be appointed the manager of the general partner of CIM Urban in the future. Moreover, we may only remove the Urban GP Manager as the manager of CIM Urban GP for “cause” (as defined in the Master Services Agreement). Removal for “cause” also requires the approval of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares (excluding for this purpose any shares held by the Manager and any affiliates of the Manager, except to the extent set forth in the immediately following sentence). Notwithstanding the foregoing, CIM REIT has the right to vote any of our shares that it owns with respect to any vote held to remove the Urban GP Manager as the manager of the CIM Urban GP; provided, however, if any such removal vote is held after the second anniversary of the Master Services Agreement, CIM REIT must obtain voting instructions from certain of its non‑affiliated investors with respect to voting the shares beneficially owned by such non‑affiliated investors and CIM REIT must vote the number of shares beneficially owned by each such non‑affiliated investor as so instructed by such non‑affiliated investor. Upon removal, a replacement manager will be appointed by the independent directors. Finally, under the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement, the general partner of CIM Urban may be removed under certain circumstances with the consent of 662/3% of the class A members of CIM REIT. Subject to the limitations set forth in the governing documents of CIM Urban and the CIM Urban GP, Urban GP Manager is given the power and authority under the Master Services Agreement to manage, to direct the management, business and affairs of and to make all decisions to be made by or on behalf of (1) CIM Urban GP and 34 Table of Contents (2) CIM Urban. Subject to the other terms of the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement, CIM Urban GP has broad discretion over the operations of CIM Urban. Accordingly, while we own indirectly all of the partnership interests in CIM Urban, except as set forth in the Master Services Agreement and the rights specifically reserved to limited partners by the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement and applicable law, we will have no part in the management and control of CIM Urban. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement contains provisions that give rights to certain unaffiliated members of CIM REIT to influence the business and operations of CIM Urban; such members may have interests that are adverse to our stockholders and the exercise of such rights may negatively impact the rights of our stockholders, or our business. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement requires the consent of a majority in interest of certain members of CIM REIT in order to amend the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement; the Investment Management Agreement can be amended only with the consent of at least 662/3% of the class A members of CIM REIT who are not affiliates of CIM Urban GP. As noted above, in certain situations, upon a two‑thirds vote of certain members of CIM REIT, the CIM Urban GP may be removed and replaced. The refusal to permit amendment of the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement or the removal of the general partner by the members of CIM REIT may adversely impact us. The Manager’s and the Advisor’s liability is limited under the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement, respectively, and we have agreed to indemnify the Manager against certain liabilities and CIM Urban has agreed to indemnify the Advisor against certain liabilities. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which neither the Manager nor the Advisor would be liable. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement, the Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and will not be responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Master Services Agreement, neither the Manager nor any of its affiliates providing services under the Master Services Agreement will be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours party to the Master Services Agreement, any governing body of any such entity, including any director or officer, or any of our or such subsidiaries’ stockholders or partners for acts or omissions pursuant to or in accordance with the Master Services Agreement, except by reason of acts or omissions constituting fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or violation of certain laws or any other intentional or criminal wrongdoing or breach of the Master Services Agreement. Moreover, the aggregate liability of any such entities and persons pursuant to the Master Services Agreement is capped at the Base Fee and transaction fees previously paid to the Manager in the two most recent calendar years. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Manager and any of its affiliates providing services under the Master Services Agreement, any affiliates of the Manager and any directors, officers, stockholders, agents, subcontractors, contractors, delegates, members, partners, shareholders, employees and other representatives of each of them from and against all actions, suits, investigations, proceedings or claims except to the extent resulting from such person’s fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or violation of certain laws or any other intentional or criminal wrongdoing or breach of the Master Services Agreement. Pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, the Advisor is not liable to CIM Urban, CIM Urban GP or any manager or director of CIM Urban GP for, among other things, (1) any act or omission performed or omitted by it or for any costs, damages or liabilities arising therefrom, in the absence of fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or a breach of the Investment Management Agreement or (2) any losses due to the negligence of any employees, brokers, or other agents of CIM Urban. In addition, CIM Urban has agreed to indemnify the Advisor against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which it may become subject in connection with, among other things, (1) any act or omission performed or omitted by it or for any costs, damages or liabilities arising therefrom, in the absence of fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or a breach of the Investment Management Agreement or (2) any losses due to the negligence of any employees, brokers, or other agents of CIM Urban. If we seek to internalize the management functions provided pursuant to the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement, there is no assurance that we could reach agreements with the Manager and the Advisor and we could incur substantial costs and lose certain key personnel. At some point in the future, the Board of Directors may determine that it is in our best interest to become self‑managed by internalizing the functions performed by the Manager and the Advisor and to terminate the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement. However, we do not have the unilateral right to terminate the Master Services Agreement and CIM Urban does not have the unilateral right to terminate the Investment Management Agreement, and neither the Manager nor the Advisor would be obligated to enter into an internalization transaction with us. There is no assurance that a mutually acceptable agreement with these entities as to the terms of the 35 Table of Contents internalization could be reached. In addition, the costs that we would incur in any such internalization transaction are uncertain and could be substantial. Further, if we were to internalize these management functions, certain key employees may not become our employees but may instead remain employees of the Manager and the Advisor or their respective affiliates, especially if the management functions are internalized but the Manager and the Advisor are not acquired by us. An inability to manage an internalization transaction could effectively result in us incurring excess costs and suffering deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting. These deficiencies could cause us to incur additional costs, and management’s attention could be diverted from most effectively managing our investments, which could result in us incurring unanticipated costs in connection with any internalization transaction. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business. We are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on the nature of investments and ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. In addition, the Investment Company Act imposes certain requirements on companies deemed to be within its regulatory scope, including registration as an investment company, adoption of a specific form of corporate structure and compliance with certain burdensome reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event of the characterization of us as an investment company, the failure by us to satisfy such regulatory requirements, whether on a timely basis or at all, would, under certain circumstances, also have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. An effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that we believe require remediation. If we discover such weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal controls in a timely manner. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or implement any necessary improvements in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations or to maintain our level of dividend distributions, or cause us to not meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the NASDAQ Global Market. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our shares of common stock may cause our market price to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Urban II is entitled to registration rights, subject to certain limitations, with respect to our securities pursuant to the Registration Rights and Lockup Agreement dated March 11, 2014 between us and Urban II (the “Registration Rights and Lockup Agreement”). Urban II is entitled to require us, on up to eight occasions, to register under the Securities Act our shares of common stock it received in connection with the Merger. In accordance with lockup provisions included in the Registration Rights and Lockup Agreement, Urban II was not permitted to engage in public sales of our shares of common stock it received in connection with the Merger until after the 12‑month anniversary of the consummation of the Merger without restriction, provided that these restrictions do not apply with respect to public sales of up to 40 million shares of common stock with the prior approval of a majority of the independent Directors. There are no lockup restrictions applicable to private sales or transfer of such shares. Following the expiration of the lockup restrictions, there may be significant pent‑up demand by CIM REIT to sell our shares of common stock that it holds. A large volume of sales of our shares of common stock could decrease the prevailing market price of our shares of common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the 36 Table of Contents sale of equity securities in the future. Even if a substantial number of sales of our shares of common stock do not occur, the mere perception of the possibility of these sales could depress the market price of our shares of common stock and have a negative effect on our ability to raise capital in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends. Our ability to maintain payment of dividends to our stockholders may be impacted by various factors, including the following: · we may not have enough capital resources to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position; · decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future dividends will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change our dividend practices at any time and for any reason; and · we may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve any credit ratings we have or may obtain in the future. There can be no assurance that the future dividends declared by our Board of Directors will not differ materially from historical dividend levels. Our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared. Future issuances of securities could dilute existing stockholders’ interests. We may satisfy our liquidity needs through, among other things, one or more issuances of securities. See “Item 1––Business—Financing Strategy” and “Item 7––Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and Uses of Funds.” Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of Common Stock, preferred stock, or other equity securities without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’ interests. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our Common Stock. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher dividend rate on our Common Stock. Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to pay dividends and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for dividends. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our Common Stock to go down. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our Common Stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. In addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our Common Stock: · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate‑based companies; · our financial performance; · general stock and bond market conditions; · government action or regulation, including changes in tax law; · increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to expect a higher annual yield from our distributions in relation to the price of our shares; · changes in federal tax laws; · our ability to re‑lease space as leases expire; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; 37 Table of Contents · changes in our credit ratings; and · any negative change in the level of our dividend or the partial payment thereof in shares of common stock. The market value of our Common Stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends and our capital structure. Consequently, our Common Stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of Common Stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our Common Stock could diminish. There is a limited trading market for our Common Stock and as a result, our share price is subject to greater volatility and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our shares of common stock are listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the volume of trading in our shares of common stock has been lower than many other companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market as approximately 98.2% of our Common Stock are presently owned by Urban II, affiliates of CIM Group and our executive officers and directors. See “Item 1A––Risk Factors—We are controlled by an affiliate of CIM Group.” A public trading market with depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our shares of common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Limited trading volume may subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for investors to sell shares at a price that is attractive to them. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 