Risk Factors — REIT Related Risks” for additional tax status information. EMPLOYEES We employed 31 individuals including marketing professionals, investment professionals, operations professionals and administrative staff as of December 31, 2008. In addition, we have employment agreements with our executive officers. Our operations are conducted from our Dallas, Texas office. We believe the relationship with our employees is good. COMPETITION When originating loans we compete with other specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans. Many of these competitors have greater financial and managerial resources than us, are able to provide services we are not able to provide (i.e., depository services), and may be better able to withstand the impact of economic downturns. Variable-rate lending: For our variable-rate loan product, we believe we compete effectively on the basis of interest rates, our long-term maturities and payment schedules, the quality of our service, our reputation as a lender, timely credit analysis and greater responsiveness to renewal and refinancing requests from borrowers. Fixed-rate lending: As a result of the prolonged period in which the yield curve was inverted or flat (i.e., compression of long-term and short-term interest rates) combined with increased competition from fixed-rate lenders, our margins for fixed-rate loans contracted to the point where it was no longer economically viable for us to compete for fixed-rate loans. In the current market, borrowers are looking predominately for fixed-rate loans; however, our ability to offer fixed-rate loans is constrained by our cost and availability of funds. Consequently, we are currently committing to loans with a variable rate. CUSTOMERS We are not dependent upon a single borrower, or a few borrowers, whose loss would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we have not loaned more than 10% of our assets to any single borrower. SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT REPORTS The Company maintains an internet site at the following address: www.pmctrust.com. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report. We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with the SEC. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Due to the complexity of the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations described elsewhere in this report, management has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements or from our historical results. These factors, which are not all-inclusive, could have a material impact on our asset valuations, results of operations or financial condition. These factors could also impair our ability to maintain dividend distributions at current or anticipated levels. Investment Risks — Lending Activities Changes in interest rates could negatively affect lending operations, which could result in reduced earnings and dividends. As a result of our current dependence on variable-rate loans, our interest income will be reduced during low interest rate environments. To the extent that LIBOR or the prime rate decreases, interest income on our loans will decline. See “Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates do not have an immediate impact on the interest income of our fixed-rate loans. Our interest rate risk on our fixed-rate loans is primarily due to loan prepayments and maturities. The average maturity of our loan portfolio is less than its average contractual terms because of prepayments. The average life of mortgage loans tends to increase when the current mortgage rates are substantially higher than rates on existing mortgage loans and, conversely, decrease when the current mortgage rates are substantially lower than rates on existing mortgage loans (due to refinancings of fixed-rate loans at lower rates). In addition, our net income is materially dependent upon the “spread” between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. During periods of changing interest rates, interest rate mismatches could negatively impact our net income, dividend yield, and the market price of our common shares. At the present time, we are originating variable-rate loans and have certain debt which is long-term and at fixed interest rates and certain preferred stock which is long-term with a fixed dividend yield. If the yield on loans originated with funds obtained from fixed-rate borrowings or preferred stock fails to cover the cost of such funds, our cash flow will be reduced. Recent changes in economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on our profitability. Turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity. This turmoil and the recession subjects our borrowers to financial stress which could impair the ability of our borrowers to satisfy their obligations to us. During periods of economic stress, delinquencies and losses may increase and losses may be substantial. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a further shift in consumer demand away from limited service hospitality properties which collateralize the majority of our loans. Leading lodging analysts predict the industry will likely feel a pronounced negative impact during 2009 as businesses and consumers take steps to reduce discretionary spending. Commercial mortgage loans expose us to a high degree of risk associated with investing in real estate. The performance and value of our loans depends upon many factors beyond our control. Commercial real estate has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and cyclical performance that impacts the value of our real estate collateralized loans. The ultimate performance and value of our loans are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of the properties which collateralize our loans, including the property owner’s ability to operate the property with sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements. Property operations may be adversely affected by: • Changes in national economic conditions; • Changes in local real estate market conditions due to changes in national or local economic conditions or changes in local property market characteristics; • The extent of the impact of the disruptions in the credit markets; • The lack of demand for commercial real estate collateralized loans used in asset-backed securitizations which may be substantially reduced as a result of the disruptions in the credit markets; 11 Table of Contents • Competition from other properties; • Changes in interest rates and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets; • The ongoing need for capital improvements; • Increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including utilities); • Adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; a decrease in the availability of or increase in the cost of insurance; • Adverse changes in zoning laws; • The impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and • Other factors that are beyond our control or the control of the commercial property owners. In the event that any of the properties underlying our loans experience any of the foregoing events or occurrences, the value of, and return on, such loans may be negatively impacted. Moreover, our profitability and the market price of our common shares may be negatively impacted. Competition might prevent us from originating loans at favorable yields, which would harm our results of operations and our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. Our net income depends on our ability to originate loans at favorable spreads over our cost of funds. In originating loans, we compete with other specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not be able to originate sufficient loans at favorable spreads over our cost of funds, which would harm our results of operations and consequently, our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. There are significant risks in lending to small businesses. Our loans receivable consist primarily of loans to small, privately-owned businesses. There is no publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we must rely on our own due diligence to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by banks. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely impacted by numerous factors, including a downturn in its industry or other negative local or macro economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. In addition, small businesses typically depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of people for their success. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have an adverse impact on the operations of the small business. Small companies are typically more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions and economic downturns and often need additional capital to expand or compete. These factors may have an impact on the ultimate recovery of our loans receivable from such businesses. Loans to small businesses, therefore, involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. There is volatility in the valuation of our loans receivable which can require the establishment of loan loss reserves. There is typically no public market or established trading market for the loans we originate. The illiquid nature of our loans may adversely affect our ability to dispose of such loans at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. To the extent one or several of our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loan, future losses may be substantial. The determination of whether significant doubt exists and whether a loan loss reserve is necessary requires judgment and consideration of the facts and circumstances existing at the evaluation date. Changes to the facts and circumstances of the borrower and/or the physical condition of the collateral underlying the loan, the hospitality industry and the economy may require the establishment of significant additional loan loss reserves. 12 Table of Contents Our operating results will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of our marketing programs. In general, due to the highly competitive nature of our business, we must execute efficient and effective promotional and marketing programs with respect to our businesses. We may, from time to time, change our marketing strategies, including the timing or nature of promotional programs. The effectiveness of our marketing and promotion practices is important to our ability to locate potential borrowers and retain existing borrowers. If our marketing programs are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about potential borrowers and guarantors. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into transactions with potential borrowers and/or their guarantors, we rely on certain information furnished to us by or on behalf of potential borrowers and/or guarantors, including financial statements, construction invoices and other financial information. We also rely on representations of potential borrowers and/or guarantors as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements or other information that is materially misleading. Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks In general, in order for us to repay indebtedness on a timely basis, we may be required to dispose of assets when we would not otherwise do so and at prices which may be below the net book value of such assets. Dispositions of assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments and Trends That May Affect Our Business.” Our operating results could be negatively impacted by our inability to access certain financial markets. We rely upon access to capital markets as a source of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, grow our business and invest in loans. Turmoil in the capital markets has constrained equity and debt capital available for investment in commercial real estate. Prolonged volatility in the economy, the overall health of the limited service hospitality industry and increased loan losses could further limit access to these markets and may restrict us from continuing our current business strategy or implementing new business strategies. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by our inability to extend the maturity of, or replace, our revolving credit facility on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to replace or extend our revolving credit facility upon its maturity (December 31, 2009) or if the terms of the extension were cost prohibitive, we could be required to repay the outstanding balance which would become immediately due or may choose to accept terms which are significantly less favorable in terms of costs or restrictions than the current terms of our facility. If the facility matures without an extension or replacement, we could be forced to liquidate or otherwise dispose of assets at a time we would not ordinarily do so and/or at prices which we may not believe are reasonable. In addition, if the revolving credit facility is not extended or replaced, we would need an additional source of funds to originate loans and grow. Our results of operations, prospects and financial condition could be negatively impacted if the revolving credit facility is not extended or is extended with a significant increase in rate, fees or restrictions. Turmoil in financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations or investments. To the extent credit and equity markets continue to experience significant disruption, many businesses will be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, when equity markets experience rapid and wide fluctuations in value, credit availability could diminish or disappear. During periods of credit and equity market disruptions, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our operations or investments on acceptable terms. 13 Table of Contents The market demand for structured loan transactions may further decline, which would decrease the availability of, and/or increase the cost of, working capital and negatively affect earnings and the potential for growth. Prolonged unavailability of the asset-backed securities market to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Our long-term ability to grow may depend on our ability to sell asset-backed securities through structured loan transactions. In the current economic market, the availability of funds has been diminished and/or non-existent or the “spread” charged for funds has increased. In addition, political or geopolitical events could impact the availability and cost of capital. A number of factors could impair our ability, or alter our decision, to complete a structured loan transaction. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Investors in the type of asset-backed securities that we place have ceased investing in asset-backed securities and may increase our cost of capital by widening the “spreads” (over a benchmark such as LIBOR or treasury rates) they require in order to begin purchasing these asset-backed securities again; • A deterioration in the performance of our loans or the loans of our prior transactions (for example, higher than expected loan losses or delinquencies) may deter potential investors from purchasing our asset-backed securities assuming investor demand for our asset-backed securities returns; • A deterioration in the operations or market perception of the limited service sector of the hospitality industry may deter potential investors from purchasing our asset-backed securities or lower the available rating from the rating agencies assuming investor demand for our asset-backed securities returns; and • A change in the underlying criteria utilized by the rating agencies may cause transactions to receive lower ratings than previously issued thereby increasing the cost on our transactions. Continued unavailability or an increased cost of this source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations since working capital may not be available or available at acceptable “spreads” to fund future loan originations or to acquire real estate. Currently, a market for our type of securitization does not exist. The market demand for secondary market sales may decline or be temporarily suspended. The market for the sale of the government guaranteed portion of SBA 7(a) Program loans may diminish and/or the premiums, if any, achieved on selling loans into that market may be reduced. This market dislocation could be a result of decreased investor demand for asset-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements. Continuation of the unprecedented market volatility may have an impact on our access to capital markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. The volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels including decreased liquidity to acquire the government guaranteed portion of loans which are typically sold in the secondary market. In addition, the capital markets have tightened credit availability to companies without regard to their underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility were to continue or deteriorate, we may experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital markets and on our financial condition and results of operations. We use leverage to fund our capital needs which magnifies the effect of changing interest rates on our earnings. We have borrowed funds and intend to borrow additional funds for our capital needs. Private lenders and the SBA have fixed dollar claims on our assets superior to the claims of the holders of our common shares. Leverage magnifies the effect that rising or falling interest rates have on our earnings. Any increase in the interest rate earned on investments in excess of the interest rate on the funds obtained from borrowings would cause our net income and earnings per share to increase more than they would without leverage, while any decrease in the interest rate earned by us on investments would cause net income and earnings per share to decline by a greater amount than they would without leverage. Leverage is thus generally considered a speculative investment technique. 14 Table of Contents Investment Risks — General We may not be able to successfully integrate new investments, which could decrease our profitability. Our future business and financial performance depend, in part, on our ability to grow through successfully integrating new investments. We may incur significant costs in the evaluation of new investment opportunities. Successfully integrating new investments puts pressure on our marketing and management resources and we may fail to invest sufficient funds to make it successful. If we are not successful in the integration of new investments, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, our revenues could decrease and our profitability could decline. There is no market for our Retained Interests and the value is volatile. Due to the limited number of entities that conduct transactions with similar assets, the relatively small size of our Retained Interests and the limited number of buyers for such assets, no readily ascertainable market exists for our Retained Interests. Therefore, our estimate of the fair value may vary significantly from what a willing buyer would pay for these assets. If a ready market existed for our Retained Interests, the value would be different and the difference may be significant. We use an income approach to value our Retained Interests. The estimated fair value of our Retained Interests is based on estimates of the present value of future cash flows we expect to receive from the QSPEs. Estimated future cash flows are based in part upon estimates of prepayment speeds and loan losses. Prepayment speeds and loan losses are estimated based on the current and anticipated interest rate and competitive environments and our historical experience with these and similar loans. The discount rates utilized are determined for each of the components of Retained Interests as estimates of market rates based on interest rates levels, including risk premiums, considering the risks inherent in the transaction. Changes in any of these assumptions or actual results which deviate from assumptions will affect the estimated fair value of our Retained Interests, possibly to a material degree. There can be no assurance as to the accuracy of these estimates. We have a concentration of investments in the hospitality industry and in certain states, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from loans collateralized by hospitality properties. At December 31, 2008, our loans were approximately 91% concentrated in the hospitality industry and approximately 92% of the loans sold to our QSPEs were concentrated in the hospitality industry. Any economic factors that negatively impact the hospitality industry, including recessions, depressed commercial real estate markets, travel restrictions, gasoline prices, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2008, approximately 23% of our loans were collateralized by properties in Texas and approximately 18% of the loans sold to our QSPEs were collateralized by properties in Texas. In addition, approximately 10% of our loans were collateralized by properties in Arizona, approximately 11% and 10% of the loans sold to our QSPEs were collateralized by properties in North Carolina and Virginia, respectively. No other state had a concentration of 10% or greater of our Retained Portfolio, loans sold to our QSPEs or Aggregate Portfolio at December 31, 2008. A decline in economic conditions in any state in which we have a concentration of investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to prepayment risk on our Retained Interests and loans receivable which could result in losses or reduced earnings and negatively affect our cash available for distribution to shareholders. We will experience prepayments on our loans receivable and underlying loans of our QSPEs. During decreasing interest rate environments and when competition is greater, prepayments of our fixed-rate loans have generally been re-loaned or committed to be re-loaned at lower interest rates than the prepaid loans receivable. For prepayments on variable-rate loans, if the spread we charge over LIBOR or the prime rate were to decrease, the lower interest rates we would receive on these new loans receivable would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and, depending upon the rate of future prepayments, may further impact our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Prepayments on loans sold to the QSPEs generally will have a negative impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Prepayments of loans with higher interest rates negatively impact the value of our Retained Interests to a greater extent than prepayments of loans receivable with lower interest rates. Prepayments in excess of assumptions will cause a decline in the fair value of our Retained Interests primarily relating to a reduction in the excess funds (our interest-only strip receivable) expected from our structured loan sale transactions. For example, if a $1.0 million loan with an interest rate of 10% prepays and the “all-in cost” of that QSPE’s structured notes was 7%, we would lose the 3% spread we had expected to receive on that loan in future periods. Our “all-in costs” include interest, servicing, trustee and other ongoing costs. The “spread” that is lost may be offset in part or in whole by any prepayment fee that we collect. In addition, our SBLC sells the government guaranteed portion of its originated loans through private placements (“Secondary Market Sales”). These sales are particularly sensitive to prepayments. Our Retained Interests in these loan sales consists only of the spread between the interest collected from the borrower and the interest paid to the purchaser of the guaranteed portion of the loan. Therefore, to the extent the prepayments of these loans exceed estimates, we lose the estimated fair value of the associated Retained Interests. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our business may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our business. As changes in our business environment occur, we may need to adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations. In addition, external events such as changes in macro-economic conditions may impair the value of our assets. If these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write-down the value of our assets. We may also need to invest in new businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. In any of these events, our costs may increase, we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets or return on new investments may be lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring. Our Board of Trust Managers may change operating policies and strategies without shareholder approval or prior notice and such change could harm our business and results of operations and the value of our common shares. Our Board of Trust Managers has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies, including PMC Commercial’s election to operate as a REIT, without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our common shares; however, the effect could be adverse. Operating Risks The occurrence of recent adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets may affect our business. The mortgage industry is under enormous pressure due to numerous economic and industry related factors. Many companies operating in the mortgage sector have failed and others are facing serious operating and financial challenges. At the same time, many mortgage securities have been downgraded and delinquencies and credit performance of mortgage loans, primarily residential, have deteriorated. We face significant challenges due to these adverse conditions in pricing and financing our mortgage assets. There can be no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. Recent adverse changes in the mortgage finance and credit markets may eliminate or reduce the availability of, or increase the cost of, significant sources of funding for us. Economic slowdowns, negative political events and changes in the competitive environment could adversely affect operating results. Several factors may impact the hospitality industry. Many of the businesses to which we have made, or will make, loans may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. During economic downturns, there may be reductions in business travel and consumers generally take fewer vacations. Bankruptcies, recessions, or other political or geopolitical events could negatively affect our borrowers. Our non-performing assets are likely to increase during these periods. These conditions could lead to losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our interest income, net income and assets. We believe the risks associated with our operations are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession. Declining real estate values may reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use existing property value increases to support investment in additional properties. 16 Table of Contents Borrowers may also be less able to meet their debt service requirements if the real estate economy continues to weaken. Furthermore, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our exposure. Increased payment defaults, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and our ability to make dividend distributions. Another factor which affects the limited service sector of the hospitality industry is a significant rise in gasoline prices within a short period of time. When gas prices sharply increase, occupancy rates for properties located on interstate highways may decrease. These factors may cause a reduction in revenue per available room. If revenue for the limited service sector of the hospitality industry were to experience significant sustained reductions, the ability of our borrowers to meet their obligations could be impaired and loan losses could increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial and managerial resources than us and are able to provide services that we are not able to provide (i.e., depository services). As a result of these competitors’ size and diversified income resources, they may be better able to withstand the impact of economic downturns. There may be significant fluctuations in our quarterly results which may adversely affect our share price. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate based on a number of factors, including, among others: • Interest rate changes; • The volume and timing of loan originations and prepayments of our loans receivable; • The recognition of gains or losses on investments; • The level of competition in our markets; and • General economic conditions, especially those which affect the hospitality industry. As a result of the above factors, quarterly results should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. If we lower our dividend, the market value of our common shares may decline. The level of our dividend is established by our Board of Trust Managers from time to time based on a variety of factors, including market conditions, REIT taxable income and maintenance of REIT status. Various factors could cause our Board of Trust Managers to decrease our dividend level, including continued credit market dislocations, additional borrower defaults resulting in a material reduction in our cash flows or material losses resulting from loan liquidations. If we lower our dividend, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of our key personnel (executive officers) who provide management services for the selection, acquisition, structuring, monitoring and sale of our portfolio assets and the borrowings used to acquire these assets. The loss of any executive officer could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and subsequent changes could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, we are regulated by the SBA. Changes in laws that govern our entities may significantly affect our business. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations are also subject to change. Any change in the laws or regulations governing our business could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents At any time, U.S. Federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations thereof may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 reduced the tax rate on both dividends and long-term capital gains for most non-corporate taxpayers to 15% through 2010. This reduced maximum tax rate generally does not apply to ordinary REIT dividends, which continue to be subject to tax at the higher tax rates applicable to ordinary income (a maximum rate of 35%). However, the 15% maximum tax rate does apply to certain REIT distributions. This legislation may cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. To the extent a loan becomes a problem loan, we will deliver a default notice and begin foreclosure and liquidation proceedings when we determine that pursuit of these remedies is the most appropriate course of action. Foreclosure and bankruptcy are complex and sometimes time consuming processes that are subject to Federal and state laws and regulations, as well as various guidelines imposed by mortgage investors. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets is uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially or adversely affected. Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. It is uncertain what effects recently enacted or future legislation or regulatory initiatives will have on us. Given the volatile nature of the current market disruption and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse the disruption, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments, including regulatory developments and trends in new products and services, in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. REIT Related Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject PMC Commercial to U.S. Federal income tax. If a company meets certain income and asset diversification and income distribution requirements under the Code, it can qualify as a REIT and be entitled to pass-through tax treatment. We would cease to qualify for pass-through tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these requirements. PMC Commercial is also subject to a non-deductible 4% excise tax (and, in certain cases, corporate level income tax) if we fail to make certain distributions. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to Federal income tax as if we were an ordinary corporation, resulting in a substantial reduction in both our net assets and the amount of income available for distribution to our shareholders. We believe that we have operated in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT under the Code and intend to continue to so operate. Although we believe that we are organized and operate as a REIT, no assurance can be given that we will continue to remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the Federal income tax consequences of such qualification. In addition, compliance with the REIT qualification tests could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in non-qualifying assets, which would negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 18 Table of Contents If PMC Commercial fails to qualify as a REIT, we may, among other things: • Not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income; • Be subject to U.S. Federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • Be subject to increased state and local taxes; and, • Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the taxable year in which we lost our qualification and the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification. As a result of these factors, failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common shares. Ownership limitations associated with our REIT status may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities. In order for PMC Commercial to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve PMC Commercial’s REIT status, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding common shares or preferred shares without specific waiver from our Board of Trust Managers. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Failure to make required distributions to our shareholders would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity generally must distribute to its shareholders, each taxable year, at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding the non-distributed taxable income of taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, our shareholders receive periodic distributions from us. Such distributions are taxable as ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to Federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We have paid out, and intend to continue to pay out, our REIT taxable income to shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid Federal corporate income tax. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) because, for example, capital losses will be deducted in determining GAAP income, but may not be deductible in computing taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as excess non-cash income. Although some types of non-cash income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur Federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax with respect to any non-cash income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in that year. 19 Table of Contents Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. Subject to certain restrictions, a REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, as of December 31, 2008, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. As of January 1, 2009, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary generally will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to normal corporate income taxes. We continuously monitor the value of our investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% (25% as of January 1, 2009) of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). The aggregate value of our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities is less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities) as of December 31, 2008. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There are no distribution requirements applicable to the taxable REIT subsidiaries and after-tax earnings may be retained. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% (25% as of January 1, 2009) limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 