ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are dependent on franchise renewals. Each of our franchise agreements is 10 years long. At the end of the term of each franchise agreement, each franchisee has the option to “renew” the franchise relationship by signing a new 10-year franchise agreement. In 2008, of the 9 franchisees that had their Play It Again Sports® franchise agreement expire, 9 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 12, 26 and 56 Play It Again Sports® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2008, of the 8 franchisees that had their Once Upon A Child® franchise agreement expire, 7 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 20, 20 and 8 Once Upon A Child® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2008, of the 6 franchisees that had Music Go Round® franchise agreement expire, 6 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 3, 1 and 0 Music Go Round® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2008, none of our Plato’s Closet® franchise agreements expired. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 11, 22 and 23 Plato’s Closet® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. We believe that renewing a significant number of these franchise relationships is important to our continued success. If a significant number of franchise relationships are not renewed our financial performance would be materially and adversely impacted. We are dependent on new franchisees. Our ability to generate increased revenue and achieve higher levels of profitability depends in part on increasing the number of franchises open. While we believe that many larger and smaller markets will continue to provide significant opportunities for sales of franchises, continuing unfavorable macro-economic conditions may affect the ability of potential franchisees to obtain external financing and/or impact their net worth, both of which could lead to a lower level of openings than we have historically experienced. There can be no assurance that we will sustain our current level of franchise openings. We are dependent upon our chief executive officer. Our success depends greatly on the efforts and abilities of our key executive John L. Morgan, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Morgan could materially harm our business. Such a loss would also divert management attention away from operational issues. 15 Table of Contents We may sell franchises for a territory, but the franchisee may not open. We believe that a substantial majority of franchises sold but not opened will open within the time period permitted by the applicable franchise agreement or we will be able to resell the territories for most of the terminated or expired franchises. However, there can be no assurance that substantially all of the currently sold but unopened franchises will open and commence paying royalties to us. At December 27, 2008, we had 45 franchise agreements expected to open in 2009. Our retail franchisees are dependent on supply of used merchandise. Our retail brands are based on offering customers a mix of used and new merchandise. As a result, the ability of our franchisees to obtain continuing supplies of high quality used merchandise is important to the success of our brands. Supply of used merchandise comes from the general public and is not regular or highly reliable. There can be no assurance that our franchisees will avoid supply problems with respect to used merchandise. On February 10, 2009, new requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act took effect whereby children’s products, whether new or used, cannot be lawfully sold in the United States if they contain more than a specified amount of lead and phthalates. Our Once Upon a Child® franchisees, and to a lesser extent, our Play It Again Sports® franchisees, buy and sell used children’s products. Adherence to these new requirements may limit the amount of used children’s merchandise available to our franchisees and could therefore have an adverse impact on our brands. We may be unable to collect accounts receivable from franchisees. In the event that our ability to collect accounts receivable significantly declines from current rates, we may incur additional charges that would affect earnings. If we are unable to collect payments due from our franchisees, it would materially adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. We operate in extremely competitive industries. Retailing, including the sale of sporting goods, children’s and teenage apparel and musical instruments, is highly competitive. Many retailers have significantly greater financial and other resources than us and our franchisees. Individual franchisees face competition in their markets from retailers of new merchandise and, in certain instances, resale, thrift and other stores that sell used merchandise. To date, our franchisees have not faced a high degree of competition in the sale of used merchandise, but do so in connection with the sale of new merchandise. However, we may face additional competition as our franchise systems expand and if additional competitors enter the used merchandise market. Our equipment leasing businesses compete with a variety of equipment financing sources that are available to businesses, including: national, regional, and local finance companies that provide leases and loan products; financing through captive finance and leasing companies affiliated with major equipment manufacturers; and commercial banks, savings and loans, credit unions and credit cards. Many of these companies are substantially larger than we are and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully compete with these larger competitors. We are in the early stages of our equipment leasing operations and there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We began our equipment leasing operations in April of 2004. We began franchising Wirth Business Credit® in 2006. As a result, there can be no assurance that any of our planned future leasing activities will be successful. An inability to successfully operate our equipment leasing business will have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to credit risk from nonpayment or slow payments in our lease portfolio. In our leasing business, if we inaccurately assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we may experience a higher number of lease defaults than expected, which would reduce our earnings. For our smaller customers, there is typically only limited publicly available financial and other information about their businesses and they often do not have audited financial statements. Accordingly, in making credit decisions, we rely upon the accuracy of information from the small business owner and/or third party sources, such as credit reporting agencies. If the information we obtain from small business owners and/or third party sources is incorrect, our ability to make appropriate credit decisions will be impaired. If losses from leases exceed our allowance for credit losses, our operating income will be reduced. In connection with our leases, we record an allowance for credit losses to provide for estimated losses. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance is an inherently uncertain process and therefore our determination of this allowance may prove to be inadequate to cover losses in connection with our portfolio of leases. Losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses would cause us to increase our provision for credit losses, reducing or eliminating our operating income. During 2008, our provision for credit losses increased to $2,569,800 from $603,700 in 2007, primarily due to a higher level of net charge-offs in the small-ticket financing business portion of our leasing segment, as well as an increase in our allowance for credit losses due to the worsening general economic trends that have increased the level of delinquencies in this business. During 2008, we had total net charge-offs of $1,644,700 compared to $424,100 in 2007. Continued charge-offs at these levels or higher would have a material adverse impact on the profitability of our leasing operations. Deteriorated economic or business conditions may negatively impact our leasing business. In an economic slowdown or recession, our equipment leasing businesses may face an increase in delinquent payments, lease defaults and credit losses. The volume of leasing business for our new and existing customers may decline, as well as the credit quality of our customers. Because we extend credit primarily to small businesses through our subsidiary Wirth Business Credit, Inc., and to many emerging companies through our subsidiary Winmark Capital Corporation, our customers may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. Any protracted economic slowdowns or recessions may make it difficult for us to maintain the volume of lease originations for new and existing customers, and may deteriorate the credit quality of new leases. Any of these events may slow the growth of our leasing portfolio and impact the profitability of our leasing operations. We must control our selling, general and administrative expense to be successful. Our ability to control the amount, and rate of growth in, selling, general and administrative expenses and the impact of unusual items resulting from our ongoing evaluation of our business strategies, asset valuations and organizational structures is important to our financial success. We expect to incur significant additional expenses in connection with the expansion of Wirth Business Credit, Inc. and Winmark Capital Corporation. In the near term, our leasing income may not exceed our expenses. We cannot assure any investor that we will be able to control such items of expense. 17 Table of Contents We have made investments outside of our franchise and leasing businesses and have suffered losses in these investments. We currently have investments in two private companies. We have purchased 18.3% of the common stock of Tomsten, Inc., a privately held corporation (d/b/a Archiver’s). Archiver’s is a retail concept created to help people preserve and enjoy their photographs. Archiver’s stores feature a wide variety of photo-safe products, including photo albums, scrapbooks and scrapbook supplies, frames, rubber stamps, and photo storage and organization products. Since the inception of our investment in 2002, Archiver’s has lost over $12.4 million in pre-tax income. Our pro rata share of Archiver’s losses has equaled $2.3 million. During 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.8 million for a portion of our investment in Archiver’s to adjust the carrying value of this investment to its expected realizable value. As of December 27, 2008, the carrying value of our $7.5 million investment equaled $2.3 million. If Archiver’s continues to sustain losses, it may need to seek external financing in the form of equity and/or debt. There can be no assurance that Archiver’s will be able to obtain additional financing. Any continued losses or inability to obtain financing on attractive terms may result in a further impairment of the carrying value of our investment and a reduction in our book value and profitability. On October 13, 2004, we made a commitment to lend $2 million to BridgeFunds Limited at an annual rate of 12% pursuant to several senior subordinated promissory notes. Each note has a maturity of five years. BridgeFunds advances funds to claimants involved in civil litigation to cover litigation expenses. We have funded our $2 million commitment. In addition, we own a warrant to purchase 6.5% of the equity of BridgeFunds on a fully diluted basis. On August 23, 2007, in connection with raising capital, BridgeFunds Limited completed a restructuring where all assets and liabilities, including the warrant, were assigned to and assumed by BridgeFunds, LLC (“BridgeFunds”). BridgeFunds’ success depends upon its ability to continue to raise capital. There can be no assurance that BridgeFunds will be able to raise capital to fund its operations. Each of our current minority investments is either in a relatively new or unproven business. Either of these businesses may not succeed and ultimately be forced to cease operations. Also, there is not a market for the equity of Tomsten, Inc. or BridgeFunds, and as a result our shares of stock in Tomsten and our BridgeFunds warrant may be of no value. Our ability to receive our investment back and realize a cash return on our investment in these companies will depend on the development of a market for such companies’ equity or the sale of such companies. In addition, BridgeFunds may not have the ability to pay interest on amounts owed to us or to repay principal amounts owed to us. The loss of our entire investment in any one or both of our current minority investments would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. From time to time, we have and will continue to make investments outside of our franchise and leasing businesses. There can be no assurance that such investments will be profitable. We are subject to restrictions in our credit facility and our subordinated note indenture. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk in our credit facility. The terms of our $55.0 million credit facility with Bank of America and The PrivateBank impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests including tests related to minimum levels of debt service coverage and tangible net worth and maximum levels of leverage. The terms of the indenture governing our $50.0 million subordinated note offering contain limited restrictive covenants, which include requiring us to maintain a positive net worth. As of December 27, 2008, we were in compliance with all of our financial covenants; however, failure to comply with these covenants in the future may result in default under one or both of these sources of capital and could result in acceleration of the related indebtedness. Any such acceleration of indebtedness would have an adverse impact on our business activities and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Recent events in the worldwide credit markets have had an adverse impact on the general availability of credit. Although our credit facility does not expire until June 2010, continued market deterioration could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or both of the banks participating in this facility, which could have an adverse impact on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. We are subject to government regulation. As a franchisor, we are subject to various federal and state franchise laws and regulations. Fourteen states, the Federal Trade Commission and three Canadian Provinces impose pre-sale franchise registration and/or disclosure requirements on franchisors. In addition, a number of states have statutes which regulate substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship such as termination, nonrenewal, transfer, discrimination among franchisees and competition with franchisees. Additional legislation, both at the federal and state levels, could expand pre-sale disclosure requirements, further regulate substantive aspects of the franchise relationship and require us to file our franchise offering circulars with additional states. Future franchise legislation could impose costs or other burdens on us that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Although most states do not directly regulate the commercial equipment lease financing business, certain states require licensing of lenders and finance companies, impose limitations on interest rates and other charges, constrain collection practices and require disclosure of certain contract terms. Laws or regulations may be adopted with respect to our equipment leases or the equipment leasing industry, and collection processes. Any new legislation or regulation, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, which affect the equipment leasing industry could increase our costs of compliance. 