Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Due to the complexity of the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect our future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations described elsewhere in this report, management has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements or from our historical results. These factors, which are not all-inclusive, could have a material impact on our asset valuations, results of operations or financial condition and could also impair our ability to maintain dividend distributions at current or anticipated levels. Investment Risks – Lending Activities Changes in economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on our profitability. Turmoil in the financial markets adversely affects economic activity. This turmoil (including the effect of any perceived or actual economic recession) subjects our borrowers to financial stress which could impair their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. During periods of economic stress, delinquencies and losses may increase and losses may be substantial. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from limited service hospitality properties which collateralize the majority of our loans. A significant increase in gasoline prices within a short period of time could affect the limited service sector of the hospitality industry. A significant portion of the limited service hospitality loans collateralizing our loans are located on interstate highways. When gas prices sharply increase, occupancy rates for properties located on interstate highways may decrease. This may cause a reduction in revenue per available room. Any sustained increase in gasoline prices could materially and adversely affect the financial condition of our borrowers which could cause us to experience increased defaults. Commercial mortgage loans expose us to a high degree of risk associated with investing in real estate. The performance and value of our loans depends upon many factors beyond our control. Commercial real estate has experienced cyclical performance and significant fluctuations in the past that impacts the value of our real estate collateralized loans. The ultimate performance and value of our loans are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of the properties which collateralize our loans, including the property owner’s ability to operate the property with sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements. The performance and value of the properties collateralizing our loans may be adversely affected by: • Changes in national or regional economic conditions; • Changes in real estate market conditions due to changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or property market characteristics; • Disruptions in the credit markets including the asset-backed securitization market; • Competition from other properties; • Changes in interest rates and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets; • The ongoing need for capital repairs and improvements; • Increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including utilities); • A significant increase in gasoline prices in a short period of time; • Adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; or a decrease in the availability of or an increase in the cost of insurance; • Adverse changes in zoning laws; • The impact of environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and, • Other factors that are beyond our control or the control of the commercial property owners. In the event that any of the properties underlying our loans experience any of the foregoing events or occurrences, the value of, and return on, such loans may be negatively impacted. Moreover, our profitability and the market price of our common shares may be negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents Payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio may increase which may cause adverse effects on our cash flows, net income (loss) and ability to make distributions. Recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have led to business contraction, liquidity issues and other problems for many of the businesses we finance. As a result, payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio increased, and may continue to increase, which has caused, and may continue to cause, adverse effects on our cash flows, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses for most of our real estate secured loans due to our borrowers’ equity in their properties, the value of the underlying collateral, the cash flows from operations of the businesses and other factors such as having recourse to the guarantors. However, due to the prolonged economic downturn and the current economic environment, we believe that in many instances, our borrowers’ equity in their properties has eroded and may further erode which may result in increased foreclosure activity and credit losses. Whenever our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loan, losses may be substantial. We may increase loan loss reserves due to general business and economic conditions and increased credit and liquidity risks which may continue to have an adverse effect on our financial performance; however, there can be no assurance that the loan loss reserves we establish will be sufficient. The commercial real estate loans we originate are subject to the risks of default and foreclosure which could result in losses to us. The commercial real estate loans we originate are collateralized by income-producing properties (primarily limited service hospitality properties) and we are subject to risks of default and foreclosure. In the event of a default under a mortgage loan, we bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows from operations and net income (loss). If a borrower defaults on one of our commercial real estate loans and the underlying property collateralizing the loan is insufficient to satisfy the outstanding balance of the loan, we may suffer a loss. In addition to losses related to collateral deficiencies, during the foreclosure process we may incur costs related to the protection of our collateral including unpaid real estate taxes, legal fees, franchise fees, insurance and operating shortfalls to the extent the property is being operated by a court-appointed receiver. Foreclosure and bankruptcy are complex and sometimes lengthy processes that are subject to Federal and state laws and regulations. An action to foreclose on a property is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of a default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. Borrowers have the option of seeking Federal bankruptcy protection which could delay the foreclosure process. In conjunction with the bankruptcy process, the terms of the loan agreements may be modified. Typically, delays in the foreclosure process will have a negative impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition due to direct and indirect costs incurred and possible deterioration of the value of the collateral. Our ability to sell any properties we own as a result of foreclosure will be impacted by changes in economic and other conditions. Our ability to sell these properties and the prices we receive on their sale are affected by many factors, including but not limited to, the number of potential buyers, the condition of the property, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions. If we are required to hold a property for an extended period of time or choose to operate the property, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition due to direct and indirect costs incurred and possible deterioration of the value of the collateral resulting in impairment losses. There are significant risks in lending to small businesses. Our loans receivable consist primarily of loans to small, privately-owned businesses. There is no publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we must rely on our own due diligence to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by banks. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely impacted by numerous factors, including a downturn in its industry or other negative local or macro economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. In addition, small businesses typically depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of people for their success. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have an adverse impact on the 10 Table of Contents operations of the small business. Small companies are typically more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions and economic downturns and often need additional capital to maintain the business, expand or compete. These factors may have an impact on the ultimate recovery of our loans receivable from such businesses. Loans to small businesses, therefore, involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. We depend on the accuracy of information provided by potential borrowers and guarantors. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into transactions with potential borrowers and/or their guarantors, we rely on certain information furnished to us by or on behalf of potential borrowers and/or guarantors. We also rely on representations of potential borrowers and/or guarantors as to the accuracy of that information. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements or other information that is inaccurate or materially misleading. Longer term loans and our real estate owned (“REO”) are typically illiquid and their value may decrease. Our commercial real estate loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure are typically illiquid investments. Therefore, we will be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. As a result, the fair market value of these investments may decrease in the future and losses may result. There is typically no public market or established trading market for the loans we originate. Accordingly, the market value for our loans will typically be less than the estimated fair value of our loans. The illiquid nature of our loans may adversely affect our ability to dispose of such loans at times when it may be advantageous or necessary for us to liquidate such investments. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect lending operations, which could result in reduced earnings and dividends. As a result of our current dependence on variable-rate loans, our interest income will be reduced during low interest rate environments. During any period that LIBOR or the prime rate decreases, interest income on our loans will decline. Changes in interest rates do not have an immediate impact on the interest income of our fixed-rate loans. Our interest rate risk on our fixed-rate loans is primarily due to loan prepayments and maturities. The average maturity of our loan portfolio is less than its average contractual terms because of prepayments. Assuming market liquidity, the average life of mortgage loans tends to increase when the current mortgage rates are substantially higher than rates on existing mortgage loans and, conversely, decrease when the current mortgage rates are substantially lower than rates on existing mortgage loans (due to refinancings of fixed-rate loans at lower rates). Our results of operations are impacted by the “spread” between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. During periods of changing interest rates, interest rate mismatches could negatively impact our results of operations, dividend yield, and the market price of our common shares. At the present time, we are primarily originating variable-rate loans and have certain debt which is long-term and at fixed interest rates. If the yield on loans originated with funds obtained from fixed-rate borrowings fails to cover the cost of such funds, our cash flow will be reduced. Competition might prevent us from originating loans at favorable yields, which would harm our results of operations and our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. Our results of operations are impacted by our ability to originate loans at favorable spreads over our cost of funds. In originating loans, we compete with other SBA 7(a) lenders, specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not be able to originate sufficient loans at favorable spreads over our cost of funds, which would harm our results of operations and consequently, our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. 11 Table of Contents Our operating results will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of our marketing programs. In general, due to the highly competitive nature of our business, we must execute efficient and effective promotional and marketing programs. We may, from time to time, change our marketing strategies, including the timing or nature of promotional programs. The effectiveness of our marketing and promotion practices is important to our ability to locate potential borrowers and retain existing borrowers. If our marketing programs are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Government Program and Regulatory Risks We have specific risks associated with originating loans under the SBA 7(a) Program. We sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans into the secondary market. These sales have resulted in collecting cash premiums and/or have created a stream of future servicing spread. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, that a secondary market will exist or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. We sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans and retain the credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans. We share pro-rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, our pursuit of remedies against a borrower is subject to SBA rules and in some instances SBA approval. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us. With respect to the guaranteed portion of SBA loans that have been sold, the SBA will first honor its guarantee and then seek compensation from us in the event that a loss is deemed to be attributable to technical deficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a loss due to significant deficiencies with our underwriting or servicing of SBA loans. In certain instances, including liquidation or charge-off of an SBA guaranteed loan, we may have a receivable for the SBA’s guaranteed portion of legal fees, operating expenses, property taxes paid etc. related to the loan or the collateral (upon and subsequent to foreclosure). While we believe expenses incurred were justified and necessary for the care and preservation of the collateral and within the established rules of the SBA, there can be no assurance that the SBA will reimburse us. In addition, reimbursement from the SBA is a time consuming and lengthy process and the SBA may seek compensation from us related to reimbursement of expenses which it does not believe were necessary for the care and preservation of the loan or its collateral. Curtailment of our ability to utilize the SBA 7(a) Program could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the Federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. There can be no assurance that the program will be maintained or that loans will continue to be guaranteed at current levels. In addition, there can be no assurance that our SBA 7(a) Program lending subsidiary will be able to maintain its status as a Preferred Lender or that we can maintain our SBA 7(a) license. If we cannot continue originating and selling government guaranteed loans at current levels, we could experience a decrease in future servicing spreads and earned premiums. From time-to-time the SBA has reached its internal budgeted limits and ceased to guarantee loans for a stated period of time. In addition, the SBA may change its rules regarding loans or Congress may adopt legislation or fail to approve a budget that would have the effect of discontinuing, reducing availability of funds for, or changing loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small businesses that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans. First Western has been granted national PLP status and originates, sells and services small business loans and is authorized to place SBA guarantees on loans without seeking prior SBA review and approval. Being a national lender, PLP status allows First Western to expedite loans since First Western is not required to present applications to the SBA for concurrent review and approval. The loss of PLP status could adversely impact our marketing efforts and ultimately loan origination volume which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our profitability may be impacted by the volume of SBA 7(a) Program loan originations. As a result of our focus on the origination of SBA 7(a) Program loans, our income and ability to continue to pay dividends at current or anticipated levels is dependent upon the volume of our SBA 7(a) Program loan originations due to the ability to sell the government guaranteed portion of these loans. In originating SBA 7(a) Program loans, we compete with other SBA 7(a) lenders, specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans, many of which have greater financial resources than us. Any reduction in the volume of these loan originations could negatively affect us. Any downgrade in the U.S.’s credit rating could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns caused a credit rating agency downgrade to the U.S.’s credit rating for the first time in history. In addition, there potentially may be future downgrades. Any default by the U.S. on its obligations, the perceived risk of such a default or any downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. These economic and market conditions could negatively impact the value of the government guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans or the interest rates that we may be charged on future SBIC debenture issuances. In addition, these economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business in many ways, including but not limited to, adversely impacting our ability to obtain financing for our investments or increasing the cost of such financing if it is obtained. Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks In general, in order for us to repay indebtedness on a timely basis, we may be required to dispose of assets when we would not otherwise do so and at prices which may be below the net book value of such assets. These dispositions of assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If an event of default occurs under our revolving credit facility (“Revolver”), the lender is permitted to accelerate repayment of the outstanding obligation. The occurrence of an event of default permits the lender under our Revolver to accelerate repayment of all amounts due and to terminate its commitment to lend thereunder. Our investments are predominantly long-term; therefore, if the Revolver is accelerated, we could be forced to reduce SBA 7(a) Program loan originations or to liquidate or otherwise dispose of assets at a time we would not ordinarily do so and/or at prices which we may not believe are reasonable. The existence of an event of default can restrict us from borrowing under our Revolver and from declaring dividends or other cash distributions to our shareholders. There can be no assurance that an event of default will not occur. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. At December 31, 2012, we had $56.2 million of debt (excluding $41.0 million of secured borrowings – government guaranteed loans on which payments are not due unless payments are received on the loans underlying them). This debt matures beginning in September 2013 and through 2035. We also issued $6.0 million of SBA debentures during March 2013. We will likely incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our indebtedness when due is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service the debt and other factors described herein. There can be no assurance that we will manage these risks successfully. In addition, we may have to refinance some or all of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may be not be able to refinance existing debt or refinance on terms at least as favorable as those that currently exist. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates are higher at the time of refinancing, our interest expense would increase. Turmoil in financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations or investments. We rely upon access to capital markets as a source of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, grow our business and invest in loans. Turmoil in the capital markets has constrained equity and debt capital available for 13 Table of Contents investment in commercial real estate. Prolonged recent recessionary conditions, concentration in the limited service hospitality industry and increased loan losses could further limit access to these markets and may restrict us from continuing our current business strategy or implementing new business strategies. To the extent credit and equity markets experience significant disruption, many businesses will be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, when equity markets experience rapid and wide fluctuations in value, credit availability could diminish or disappear. During periods of credit and equity market disruptions, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult or impossible to obtain financing on acceptable terms. The market demand for Secondary Market Loan Sales may decline or be temporarily suspended. The market for the sale of the government guaranteed portion of SBA 7(a) Program loans may diminish and/or the premiums, if any, achieved on selling loans into that market may be reduced which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create availability under our Revolver and originate new loans. To the extent the capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption, there may be a decrease in liquidity to acquire the government guaranteed portion of loans which are typically sold into the secondary market. In addition, if market disruption and volatility are substantial, we may experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital markets and on our financial condition and results of operations. This market dislocation could be a result of decreased investor demand for asset-backed securities in general or loans to a particular industry and/or increased investor yield requirements. We use leverage to fund our capital needs which magnifies the effect of changing interest rates on our earnings. We have borrowed funds and, as markets allow, intend to borrow additional funds for our capital needs. Private lenders and the SBA have fixed dollar claims on our assets superior to the claims of the holders of our common shares. Leverage magnifies the effect that rising or falling interest rates have on our earnings. Any increase in the interest rate earned on investments in excess of the interest rate on the funds obtained from borrowings would cause our net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share to increase (decrease) more than they would without leverage, while any decrease in the interest rate earned by us on investments would cause net income (loss) and earnings per share to decline (increase) by a greater amount than they would without leverage. Leverage is thus generally considered a speculative investment technique. Investment Risks – General We have concentrations of investments which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from loans collateralized by hospitality properties. At December 31, 2012, our loans were 94% concentrated in the hospitality industry. Any factors that negatively impact the hospitality industry, including recessions, severe weather events (such as hurricanes, blizzards, floods, etc.), depressed commercial real estate markets, travel restrictions, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2012, 15% of our loans receivable were collateralized by properties in Texas. No other state had a concentration of 10% or greater of our loans receivable at December 31, 2012. A decline in economic conditions in any state in which we have a concentration of investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not loaned more than 10% of our assets to any single borrower; however, we have an affiliated group of obligors representing approximately 5% of our loans receivable at December 31, 2012. Any significant decline in the financial status of this group could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to prepayment risk on our loans receivable which could result in losses or reduced earnings and negatively affect our cash available for distribution to shareholders. We experience prepayments on our loans receivable. Assuming capital availability, during decreasing interest rate environments and when competition is greater, prepayments of our fixed-rate loans have generally been re-loaned or committed to be re-loaned at lower interest rates than the prepaid loans receivable. For prepayments on variable-rate loans, if the spread we charge over LIBOR or the prime rate were to decrease, the lower interest rates we would receive on these new loans receivable would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and, depending upon the rate of future prepayments, may further impact our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our business may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our business and/or the value of our common shares. Our future business and financial performance may depend, in part, on our ability to grow through successfully integrating new investments. We may incur significant costs in the evaluation of new investment opportunities. Successfully integrating new investments puts pressure on our marketing and management resources and we may fail to invest sufficient funds and/or resources to make it successful. If we are not successful in the integration of new investments, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, our revenues could decrease and our profitability could decline. As changes in our business environment occur, we may need to adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations. We may also need to invest in new businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. Costs may increase and the return on new investments may be lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring. Costs include both direct expenses and the indirect cost of management’s time which may be focused on strategic initiatives instead of oversight of our current business strategy and day-to-day operations. In addition, these costs of evaluating new business initiatives have been and may continue to be significant. Costs incurred in conjunction with the evaluation of strategic initiatives and/or uncertain prospects may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and value of our common shares. The market price of our shares could be volatile as initiatives are explored. Our Board of Trust Managers (“Board”) may change operating policies and strategies without shareholder approval or prior notice and such change could harm our business and results of operations and the value of our common shares. Our Board has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our common shares; however, the effect could be adverse. Operating Risks We have incurred net losses and may experience future net losses. Our income (loss) from continuing operations and net income (loss) have been and continue to be adversely affected by, among other things, the economic environment, the costs of evaluating strategic alternatives and the selling of the government guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans as hybrids, which does not allow for recognition of cash premiums collected as income. We may incur additional (1) losses related to our loan portfolio and (2) costs related to strategic initiatives or alternatives that could materially and adversely affect our business, dividend distributions, results of operations, financial condition and/or the market value of our common shares. Economic slowdowns, negative political events and changes in the competitive environment could adversely affect future operating results. Several factors impact the hospitality industry. Most of the businesses to which we have made, or will make, loans are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. Generally, during economic downturns there may be reductions in business travel and consumers take fewer vacations. In addition, the environment for travel can be significantly affected by a variety of factors including adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, health concerns, international, political or military developments and terrorist attacks. If revenue for the limited service sector of the hospitality industry were to experience significant sustained reductions, the ability of our borrowers to meet their obligations could be impaired and loan losses could increase. Bankruptcies, recessions, or other political or geopolitical events could continue to negatively affect our borrowers. Our non-performing assets may increase during these periods. These conditions could lead to additional losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our interest income, net income (loss) and the value of our assets. 15 Table of Contents We believe the risks associated with our operations are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession. Declining real estate values may further reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use existing property value increases to support investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to meet their debt service, property taxes, insurance and/or franchise requirements (including required property improvement plans) if economic conditions do not further improve. Furthermore, declining commercial real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our exposure. Increased payment defaults, foreclosures and/or losses could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and our ability to make dividend distributions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and managerial resources than us and are able to provide services that we are not able to provide (i.e., depository services). As a result of these competitors’ size and diversified income resources, they may be better able to withstand the impact of economic downturns. There may be significant fluctuations in our quarterly results which may adversely affect our share price. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate based on a number of factors, including, among others: • Interest rate changes; • Expenses related to REO or assets currently in the foreclosure process; • Expenses related to exploration of strategic alternatives or initiatives; • The amount of non-performing loans; • The volume, type and timing of loan originations and prepayments of our loans receivable; • Recognition and amount of premium, if any, on secondary market loan sales; • The recognition of gains or losses on investments; • The level of competition in our markets; and • General economic conditions, especially those which affect the hospitality industry. As a result of the above factors, quarterly results should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. Establishing loan loss reserves entails significant judgment and may materially impact our results of operations. We have a quarterly review process to identify and evaluate potential exposure to loan losses. The determination of whether significant doubt exists and whether a loan loss reserve is necessary requires judgment and consideration of the facts and circumstances existing at the evaluation date. Loans that require specific identification review are identified based on one or more negative characteristics including, but not limited to, non-payment or lack of timely payment of principal and/or interest, non-payment or lack of timely payment of property taxes for an extended period of time, insurance defaults and/or franchise defaults. The specific identification process begins with an evaluation of the estimated fair value of the loan. In determining estimated fair value, management utilizes the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate and/or an estimation of underlying collateral values using appraisals, broker price opinions, tax assessed value and/or revenue analysis. Additionally, further changes to the facts and circumstances of the individual borrowers, the limited service hospitality industry and the economy may require the establishment of additional loan loss reserves and the effect to our results of operations may be material. If our judgments underlying the establishment of our loan loss reserves are not correct, our results of operations may be materially impacted. Whenever our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loans, losses may be substantial. If we lower our dividend, the market value of our common shares may decline. The level of our dividend is established by our Board from time to time based on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, actual and projected cash flows available for dividend distributions, expectations for future earnings, REIT taxable income (loss) and maintenance of REIT status, the economic environment, competition, our ability to obtain leverage, our loan portfolio performance and our ability to maintain a stable dividend considering the foregoing factors. Various factors could cause our Board to decrease our dividend level, including continued credit market dislocations, terms of our Revolver, borrower defaults resulting in a material reduction in our cash flows or material losses resulting from loan liquidations. If we lower our dividend, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price could become volatile and the market value of our common shares may decline. Many of the risks stated herein could affect our share price. In addition, the timing of any public announcements such as management changes or initiation of strategic initiatives could affect our share price. Our shares are subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community. A significant drop in our share price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We have risk and substantial expenses associated with holding and/or operating our REO. Our REO is subject to a variety of risks including, but not limited to: • We are dependent upon third-party managers to operate and manage our REO. As a REIT, PMC Commercial or its subsidiaries cannot directly operate hospitality properties; • Our REO is generally operated at a loss and such losses may be substantial; • Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully insure our businesses and assets from claims and/or liabilities, including environmental liabilities; • We may be required to make significant capital improvements to maintain our REO; • In conjunction with the operations of our REO, we are subject to numerous Federal and state laws and government regulations including environmental, occupational health and safety, state and local taxes and laws relating to access for disabled persons; and • Under various laws and regulations, we may be considered liable for the costs of remediating or removing hazardous substances found on our property, regardless of whether we were responsible for its presence. The ultimate costs may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. We could be subject to compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In general, we are not subject to environmental laws and regulations; however, our borrowers are subject to these laws. In conjunction with REO, we could be held responsible for environmental liabilities which we did not create. These liabilities, if incurred, could materially adversely affect our business, cash flow and liquidity. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of our key personnel (two executive officers) who provide management services for the selection, acquisition, structuring, monitoring and sale of our portfolio assets and the borrowings used to acquire these assets. In addition, the loss of either of our executive officers would cause an event of default on our Revolver. The loss of either of our executive officers could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and subsequent changes could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, many of our operations are regulated by the SBA. Changes in laws that govern our entities may significantly affect our business. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations are also subject to change. Any change in the laws or regulations governing our business could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. At any time, U.S. Federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations thereof may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Ordinary REIT dividends are currently generally subject to higher tax rates applicable to ordinary income (a maximum rate of 35%) compared to standard long-term capital gains tax of 15% to 20% effective in 2013 and 15% to 20% (high income taxpayers) on dividends. This legislation may cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”) requires all public accommodations and commercial facilities to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and additional capital improvements to properties. In addition, new requirements are being added. A determination that our properties owned or the properties we finance are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fine by the U.S. Government to us or our borrowers or an award of damages to private litigants. 17 Table of Contents Legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party may adversely affect us. We are currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These typically arise in the ordinary course of business (i.e., collection of loans receivable). There exists the possibility that these proceedings and/or their resolution may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and/or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Various changes to GAAP are constantly being considered, some of which could materially impact our reported financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition, the SEC is currently considering whether publicly traded companies in the U.S. should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of the current GAAP in the U.S. IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board which are currently in effect for most other countries in the world. A change in any accounting standard could materially impact our reported financial condition and/or results of operations. REIT Related Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject PMC Commercial to U.S. Federal income tax. If a company meets certain income and asset diversification and income distribution requirements under the Code, it can qualify as a REIT and, to the extent the dividends paid deduction is utilized, corporate level Federal income taxes can be reduced or eliminated. We would be subject to corporate level Federal income tax if we were unable to comply with these requirements, including any available remedies. PMC Commercial is also subject to a non-deductible 4% excise tax (and, in certain cases, corporate level income tax) if we fail to make certain distributions. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to Federal income tax as if we were an ordinary corporation, resulting in a substantial reduction in both our net assets and the amount of income available for distribution to our shareholders. We believe that we have operated in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT under the Code and intend to continue to so operate. Although we believe that we are organized and operate as a REIT, no assurance can be given that we will continue to remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the Federal income tax consequences of such qualification. In addition, compliance with the REIT qualification tests could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in non-qualifying assets, which would negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If PMC Commercial fails to qualify as a REIT, we may, among other things: • Not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income; • Be subject to U.S. Federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • Be subject to increased state and local taxes; and, • Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the taxable year in which we lost our qualification and the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification. As a result of these factors, failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common shares. 18 Table of Contents Ownership limitations associated with our REIT status may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities. In order for PMC Commercial to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding common shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve PMC Commercial’s REIT status, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding common shares or preferred shares without specific waiver from our Board. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Failure to make required distributions to our shareholders would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity generally must distribute to its shareholders, each taxable year, at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding the non-distributed taxable income of taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, our shareholders receive periodic distributions from us. Such distributions are taxable as ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to Federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We have paid out, and intend to continue to pay out, our REIT taxable income to shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid Federal corporate income tax. Our taxable income (loss) may substantially exceed our net income (loss) as determined based on GAAP because, for example, capital losses will be deducted in determining GAAP income, but may not be deductible in computing taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as excess non-cash income. Although some types of non-cash income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur Federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax with respect to any non-cash income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to incur debt, liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable or, if available, use cash reserves in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in that year. Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. Subject to certain restrictions, a REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary generally will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to normal corporate income taxes. We continuously monitor the value of our investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). The aggregate value of our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities is less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities) as of December 19 Table of Contents 31, 2012. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There are no distribution requirements applicable to the taxable REIT subsidiaries and after-tax earnings may be retained. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 