ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are dependent on franchise renewals. Each of our franchise agreements is 10 years long. At the end of the term of each franchise agreement, each franchisee has the option to “renew” the franchise relationship by signing a new 10-year franchise agreement. In 2007, of the 20 franchisees that had their Play It Again Sports® franchise agreement expire, 20 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, 9, 15 and 29 Play It Again Sports® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2007, of the 13 franchisees that had their Once Upon A Child® franchise agreement expire, 13 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, 8, 24 and 22 Once Upon A Child® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2007, of the 7 franchisees that had Music Go Round® franchise agreement expire, 7 signed new 10-year franchise agreements. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, 4,4 and 1 Music Go Round® franchise agreements will expire, respectively. In 2007, none of our Plato’s Closet® franchise agreements expired. None of our Plato’s Closet® franchise agreements will expire in 2008 and 11 and 22 Plato’s Closet® franchise agreements will expire in 2009 and 2010, respectively. We believe that renewing a significant number of these franchise relationships is extremely important to our continued success. If a significant number of franchise relationships are not renewed our financial performance would be materially and adversely affected. We have suffered declines in the number of Play It Again Sports® franchises. The number of our Play It Again Sports® franchises has continued to decline. In 1999, Play It Again Sports® closed 58 stores and opened 12 stores, a net loss of 46 stores. In 2000, Play It Again Sports® closed 64 stores and opened 15 stores, a net loss of 49 stores. In 2001, Play It Again Sports® closed 59 stores and opened 10 stores, a net loss of 49 stores. In 2002, Play It Again Sports® closed 35 stores and opened 7 stores, a net loss of 28 stores. In 2003, Play It Again Sports® closed 37 stores and opened 10 stores, a net loss of 27 stores. In 2004, Play It Again Sports® closed 27 stores and opened 12 stores, a net loss of 15 stores. In 2005, Play It Again Sports® closed 26 stores and opened 10 stores, a net loss of 16 stores. In 2006, Play It Again Sports® closed 22 stores and opened 14 stores, a net loss of 8 stores. In 2007, Play It Again Sports® closed 28 stores and opened 14 stores for a net loss of 14 stores. It is extremely important to our future success that the net loss of Play It Again Sports® stores be slowed and ultimately reversed. We believe that a certain number of stores will close each year. Our objective is to minimize store closings by continuing our investment in franchisee support services such as franchisee training, Winmark Business Solutions and the Winmark computer support center, by investing capital to improve Winmark’s proprietary point-of-sale software system and continuing to train our field operations personnel to better serve franchisee needs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing or reversing the decline in Play It Again Sports® franchises. If we are not successful, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are dependent on new franchisees. Our ability to generate increased revenue and achieve higher levels of profitability depends in part on increasing the number of franchises open. We believe that many larger and smaller markets will continue to provide significant opportunities for sales of franchises and that we can sustain approximately our current annual level of openings. However, there can be no assurance that we will sustain this level of franchise openings. We are dependent upon our chief executive officer. Our success depends greatly on the efforts and abilities of our key executive John L. Morgan, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Morgan could materially harm our business. Such a loss would also divert management attention away from operational issues. 16 We may sell franchises for a territory, but the franchisee may not open. We believe that a substantial majority of franchises sold but not opened will open within the time period permitted by the applicable franchise agreement or we will be able to resell the territories for most of the terminated or expired franchises. However, there can be no assurance that substantially all of the currently sold but unopened franchises will open and commence paying royalties to us. At December 29, 2007, we had 53 franchise agreements expected to open in 2008. We are dependent on supply of used merchandise. Our retail brands are based on offering customers a mix of used and new merchandise. As a result, obtaining continuing supplies of high quality used merchandise is important to the success of our brands. Supply of used merchandise comes from the general public and is not regular or highly reliable. There can be no assurance that we will avoid supply problems with respect to used merchandise. We may be unable to collect accounts receivable from franchisees. In the event that our ability to collect accounts receivable significantly declines from current rates, we may incur additional charges that would affect earnings. If we are unable to collect payments due from our franchisees, it would materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We operate in extremely competitive industries. Retailing, including the sale of sporting goods, childrens and teenage apparel and musical instruments, is highly competitive. Many retailers have significantly greater financial and other resources than us and our franchisees. Individual franchisees face competition in their markets from retailers of new merchandise and, in certain instances, resale, thrift and other stores that sell used merchandise. To date, our franchisees have not faced a high degree of competition in the sale of used merchandise, but do so in connection with the sale of new merchandise. However, we may face additional competition as our franchise systems expand and if additional competitors enter the used merchandise market. Our equipment leasing businesses compete with a variety of equipment financing sources that are available to businesses, including: national, regional, and local finance companies that provide leases and loan products; financing through captive finance and leasing companies affiliated with major equipment manufacturers; and commercial banks, savings and loans, credit unions and credit cards. Many of these companies are substantially larger than we are and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully compete with these larger competitors. We are in the early stages of our equipment leasing operations and there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We began our equipment leasing operations in April of 2004. We began franchising Wirth Business Credit® in 2006. As a result, there can be no assurance that any of our planned future leasing activities will be successful. An inability to successfully launch and operate our equipment leasing business will have a material negative affect on our financial results. 17 We are subject to credit risk from nonpayment or slow payments in our lease portfolio. In our leasing business, if we inaccurately assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we may experience a higher number of lease defaults than expected, which would reduce our earnings. For our smaller customers, there is typically only limited publicly available financial and other information about their businesses and they often do not have audited financial statements. Accordingly, in making credit decisions, we rely upon the accuracy of information from the small business owner and/or third party sources, such as credit reporting agencies. If the information we obtain from small business owners and/or third party sources is incorrect, our ability to make appropriate credit decisions will be impaired. If losses from leases exceed our allowance for credit losses, our operating income will be reduced. In connection with our leases, we record an allowance for credit losses to provide for estimated losses. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance is an inherently uncertain process and therefore our determination of this allowance may prove to be inadequate to cover losses in connection with our portfolio of leases. Losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses would cause us to increase our provision for credit losses, reducing or eliminating our operating income. Deteriorated economic or business conditions may negatively impact our leasing business. In an economic slowdown or recession, our equipment leasing businesses may face an increase in delinquent payments, lease defaults and credit losses. The volume of leasing business for our new and existing customers may decline, as well as the credit quality of our customers. Because we extend credit primarily to small businesses through our subsidiary Wirth Business Credit, Inc., and to many emerging companies through our subsidiary Winmark Capital Corporation, our customers may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. Any protracted economic slowdowns or recessions may make it difficult for us to maintain the volume of lease originations for new and existing customers, and may deteriorate the credit quality of new leases. Any of these events may slow the growth of our leasing portfolio and impact the profitability of our leasing operations. We must control our selling, general and administrative expense to be successful. Our ability to control the amount, and rate of growth in, selling, general and administrative expenses and the impact of unusual items resulting from our ongoing evaluation of our business strategies, asset valuations and organizational structures is important to our financial success. We expect to incur significant additional expenses in connection with the expansion of Wirth Business Credit, Inc. and Winmark Capital Corporation. In the near term, our leasing income will not exceed our expenses. We cannot assure any investor that we will be able to control such items of expense. We have made minority investments outside of our franchise and leasing businesses and have suffered losses in these investments. We currently have investments in two private companies. We have purchased 18.3% of the common stock of Tomsten, Inc., a privately held corporation (d/b/a Archiver’s). Archiver’s is a retail concept created to help people preserve and enjoy their photographs. Archiver’s stores feature a wide variety of photo-safe products, including photo albums, scrapbooks and scrapbook supplies, frames, rubber stamps, and photo storage and organization products. 18 Since the inception of our investment in 2002, Archiver’s has lost over $11.0 million in pre-tax income. Our pro rata share of Archiver’s losses has equaled $2.0 million. As of December 29, 2007, the carrying value of our $7.5 million investment equaled $5.5 million. If Archiver’s continues to sustain losses, it may need to seek external financing in the form of equity and/or debt. Archiver’s continued losses, inability to find capital, or ability to find capital on unattractive terms may result in an impairment to the carrying value of our investment and a reduction in our book value. On October 13, 2004, we made a commitment to lend $2 million to BridgeFunds Limited at an annual rate of 12% pursuant to several senior subordinated promissory notes. Each note has a maturity of five years. BridgeFunds advances funds to claimants involved in civil litigation to cover litigation expenses. We have funded our $2 million commitment. In addition, we own a warrant to purchase 8.8% of the equity of BridgeFunds on a fully diluted basis. On August 23, 2007, in connection with raising capital, BridgeFunds Limited completed a restructuring where all assets and liabilities, including the warrant, were assigned to and assumed by BridgeFunds, LLC (“BridgeFunds”). BridgeFunds’ success depends upon its ability to continue to raise capital. There can be no assurance that BridgeFunds will be able to raise capital to fund its operations. Each of our minority investments is either in a relatively new or unproven business. Any of these businesses may not succeed and ultimately be forced to cease operations. Also, there is not a market for the equity of Tomsten, Inc. or BridgeFunds, and as a result our shares of stock in Tomsten and our BridgeFunds warrant may be of no value. Our ability to receive our investment back and realize a cash return on our investment in these companies will depend on the development of a market for such companies’ equity or the sale of such companies. In addition, BridgeFunds may not have the ability to pay interest on amounts owed to us or to repay principal amounts owed to us. The loss of our entire investment in any one or all of our minority investments would have a material negative impact on our financial results. We are subject to government regulation. As a franchisor, we are subject to various federal and state franchise laws and regulations. Fourteen states, the Federal Trade Commission and three Canadian Provinces impose pre-sale franchise registration and/or disclosure requirements on franchisors. In addition, a number of states have statutes which regulate substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship such as termination, nonrenewal, transfer, discrimination among franchisees and competition with franchisees. Additional legislation, both at the federal and state levels, could expand pre-sale disclosure requirements, further regulate substantive aspects of the franchise relationship and require us to file our franchise offering circulars with additional states. Future franchise legislation could impose costs or other burdens on us that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Although most states do not directly regulate the commercial equipment lease financing business, certain states require licensing of lenders and finance companies, and impose limitations on interest rates and other charges, and a disclosure of certain contract terms and constrain collection practices. Laws or regulations may be adopted with respect to our equipment leases or the equipment leasing industry, and collection processes. Any new legislation or regulation, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, which affect the equipment leasing industry could increase our costs of compliance. 19 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 