Risk Factors – REIT Related Risks” for additional tax status information. EMPLOYEES We employed 46 individuals including marketing professionals, investment professionals, operations professionals and administrative staff as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we have employment agreements with our executive officers. Our operations are conducted from our Dallas, Texas office. We believe the relationship with our employees is good. COMPETITION When originating loans we compete with other specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans. Many of these competitors have greater financial and managerial resources than us, are able to provide services we are not able to provide (i.e., depository services), and may be better able to withstand the impact of economic downturns. In addition, increased competition has caused margin compression. Fixed-rate lending: As a result of the prolonged period in which the yield curve was inverted or flat (i.e., compression of long-term and short-term interest rates) combined with increased competition from fixed-rate lenders, our margins for fixed-rate loans contracted to the point where it was no longer economically viable for us to compete for fixed-rate loans. In the current market, borrowers are looking predominately for fixed-rate loans; however, our ability to offer fixed-rate loans is constrained by our cost of funds. Local banks offer a five-year maturity, 20-year amortization loan (“mini-perm loan”) at a more attractive rate than we can offer based on our current sources of funds. Consequently, we are currently predominately committing to loans with a variable rate. We continue to actively pursue alternative sources of funds and evaluate interest rate hedges to reduce our cost of funds and/or reduce interest rate risk, which may allow us to originate fixed-rate loans at more competitive rates. Variable-rate lending: For our variable-rate loan product, we believe we compete effectively on the basis of interest rates, our long-term maturities and payment schedules, the quality of our service, our reputation as a lender, timely credit analysis and greater responsiveness to renewal and refinancing requests from borrowers. CUSTOMERS In relation to our lending division, we are not dependent upon a single borrower, or a few borrowers, whose loss would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we have not loaned more than 10% of our assets to any single borrower. SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT REPORTS The Company maintains an internet site at the following address: www.pmctrust.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Management has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements or from our historical results. These factors, which are not all-inclusive, could have a material impact on our asset valuations, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, these factors could impair our ability to maintain dividend distributions at current or anticipated levels. Investment Risks – Lending Activities Changes in interest rates could negatively affect lending operations, which could result in reduced earnings and dividends. As a result of our current dependence on variable-rate loans, our interest income will be reduced during low interest rate environments. To the extent that LIBOR or the prime rate decreases, interest income on our currently outstanding loans receivable will decline. See “Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates do not have an immediate impact on the interest income of our fixed-rate loans receivable. Our interest rate risk on our fixed-rate loans receivable is primarily due to loan prepayments and maturities. The average maturity of our loan portfolio is less than their average contractual terms because of prepayments. The average life of mortgage loans receivable tends to increase when the current mortgage rates are substantially higher than rates on existing mortgage loans receivable and, conversely, decrease when the current mortgage rates are substantially lower than rates on existing mortgage loans receivable (due to refinancings of fixed-rate loans receivable at lower rates). In addition, our net income is materially dependent upon the “spread” between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. During periods of changing interest rates, interest rate mismatches could negatively impact our net income, dividend yield, and the market price of our common shares. At the present time, we are primarily originating variable-rate loans and have certain debt which is long-term and at fixed interest rates and preferred stock which is long-term with a fixed dividend yield. If the yield on loans originated with funds obtained from fixed-rate borrowings or preferred stock fails to cover the cost of such funds, our cash flow will be reduced. Commercial mortgage loans expose us to a high degree of risk associated with investing in real estate. The performance and value of our loans depends upon many factors beyond our control. Commercial real estate has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and cyclical performance that impacts the value of our real estate collateralized loans. The ultimate performance and value of our loans are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of the properties which collateralize our loans includes the property owner’s ability to operate the property with sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements. Property operations may be adversely affected by: • changes in national economic conditions; • changes in local real estate market conditions due to changes in national or local economic conditions or changes in local property market characteristics; • the extent of the impact of the current disruptions in the credit markets; • the lack of demand for commercial real estate collateralized loans used in asset-backed securitizations which may be substantially reduced as a result of the current disruptions in the credit markets; • competition from other properties; • changes in interest rates and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets; • the ongoing need for capital improvements; • changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including utilities); • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; Acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters; Acts of war or terrorism; decrease in the availability of or increase in the cost of insurance; • adverse changes in zoning laws; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and • other factors that are beyond our control or the control of the commercial property owners. 12 Table of Contents In the event that any of the properties underlying our loans experience any of the foregoing events or occurrences, the value of, and return on, such loans may be negatively impacted. Moreover, our profitability and the market price of our common shares may be negatively impacted. Competition might prevent us from originating loans at favorable yields, which would harm our results of operations and our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. Our net income depends on our ability to originate loans at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In originating loans, we compete with other specialty commercial lenders, banks, broker dealers, other REITs, savings and loan associations, insurance companies and other entities that originate loans, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not be able to originate sufficient loans at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which would harm our results of operations and consequently, our ability to continue paying dividends at current or anticipated levels. There are significant risks in lending to small businesses. Our loans receivable consist primarily of loans to small, privately-owned businesses. There is no publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we must rely on our own due diligence to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by banks. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely impacted by numerous factors, including a downturn in its industry or other negative local or macro economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. In addition, small businesses typically depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of people for their success. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have an adverse impact on the operations of the small business. Small companies are typically more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions and economic downturns and often need additional capital to expand or compete. These factors may have an impact on the ultimate recovery of our loans receivable from such businesses. Loans to small businesses, therefore, involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. There is volatility in the valuation of our loans receivable which can require the establishment of loan loss reserves. There is typically no public market or established trading market for the loans we originate. The illiquid nature of our loans may adversely affect our ability to dispose of such loans at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. To the extent one or several of our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loan, future losses may be substantial. The determination of whether significant doubt exists and whether a loan loss reserve is necessary for each loan requires judgment and consideration of the facts and circumstances existing at the evaluation date. Changes to the facts and circumstances of the borrower and/or the physical condition of the collateral underlying the loan, the hospitality industry and the economy may require the establishment of significant additional loan loss reserves. Our operating results will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of our marketing programs. In general, due to the highly competitive nature of our business, we must execute efficient and effective promotional and marketing programs with respect to our businesses. We may, from time to time, change our marketing strategies, including the timing or nature of promotional programs. The effectiveness of our marketing and promotion practices is important to our ability to locate potential borrowers and retain existing borrowers. If our marketing programs are not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about potential borrowers and guarantors. In deciding whether or not to extend credit or enter into transactions with potential borrowers and/or their guarantors, we rely on certain information furnished to us by or on behalf of potential borrowers and/or guarantors, including financial statements, construction invoices and other financial information. We also rely on representations of potential borrowers and/or guarantors as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. 13 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that are materially misleading. Investment Risks — General We may not be able to successfully integrate new investments, which could decrease our profitability. Our future business and financial performance depend, in part, on our ability to grow through successfully integrating new investments. We may incur significant costs in the evaluation of new investment opportunities. Successfully integrating new investments puts pressure on our marketing and management resources and we may fail to invest sufficient funds to make it successful. If we are not successful in the integration of new investments, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, our revenues could decrease and our profitability could decline. There is no market for our Retained Interests and the value is volatile. Due to the limited number of entities that conduct transactions with similar assets, the relatively small size of our Retained Interests and the limited number of buyers for such assets, no readily ascertainable market exists for our Retained Interests. Therefore, our estimate of the fair value may vary significantly from what a willing buyer would pay for these assets. If a ready market existed for our Retained Interests, the value would be different and the difference may be significant. The following is a sensitivity analysis of our Retained Interests as of December 31, 2007 to highlight the volatility that results when prepayments, loan losses and discount rates are different than our assumptions: Estimated Fair Changed Assumption Value Asset Change (1) (In thousands) Losses increase by 50 basis points per annum (2) $ 48,072 ($ 544 ) Losses increase by 100 basis points per annum (2) $ 47,271 ($ 1,345 ) Rate of prepayment increases by 5% per annum (3) $ 48,586 ($ 30 ) Rate of prepayment increases by 10% per annum (3) $ 48,537 ($ 79 ) Discount rates increase by 100 basis points $ 47,829 ($ 787 ) Discount rates increase by 200 basis points $ 47,059 ($ 1,557 ) (1) Any depreciation of our Retained Interests is either included in the accompanying statement of income as a permanent impairment (if there is a reduction in expected future cash flows) or on our balance sheet in beneficiaries’ equity as an unrealized loss. (2) If we experience significant losses (i.e., in excess of anticipated losses), the effect on our Retained Interests would first be to reduce the value of the interest-only strip receivables. To the extent the interest-only strip receivables could not fully absorb the losses, the effect would then be to reduce the value of our reserve funds and then the value of our required overcollateralization. (3) For example, a 16% assumed rate of prepayment would be increased to 21% or 26% based on increases of 5% or 10% per annum, respectively. These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. Values based on changes in these assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated since the relationship of the change in assumptions to the change in value may not be linear. The effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the estimated fair value of our Retained Interests is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor are not isolated from changes in another which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Changes in any of these assumptions or actual results which deviate from assumptions will affect the estimated fair value of our Retained Interests, possibly to a material degree. There can be no assurance as to the accuracy of these estimates. 14 Table of Contents We have a concentration of investments in the hospitality industry and in certain states, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from loans collateralized by hospitality properties. At December 31, 2007, our loans receivable were approximately 94% concentrated in the hospitality industry and approximately 92% of the loans sold to our QSPEs were concentrated in the hospitality industry. Any economic factors that negatively impact the hospitality industry, including travel restrictions, gasoline prices, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2007, approximately 25% of our loans receivable were collateralized by properties in Texas and approximately 23% of the loans sold to our QSPEs were collateralized by properties in Texas. No other state had a concentration of 10% or greater of our loans receivable, loans sold to our QSPEs or Aggregate Portfolio at December 31, 2007. A decline in economic conditions in any state in which we have a concentration of investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to prepayment risk on our Retained Interests and loans receivable which could result in losses or reduced earnings and negatively affect our cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our prepayment activity has increased. Prepayment activity on our aggregate fixed-rate loans receivable has remained at high levels as a result of the continued low long-term interest rate environment combined with increased competition and the reduction or expiration of prepayment fees. In addition, prepayment activity for our aggregate variable-rate loans has increased since borrowers with variable-rate loans are generally seeking fixed-rate loans due to the current low level of interest rates. The proceeds from the prepayments we receive are either used to repay debt or invested initially in temporary investments. During decreasing interest rate environments and when competition is greater, prepayments of our fixed-rate loans have generally been re-loaned or committed to be re-loaned at lower interest rates than the prepaid loans receivable. For prepayments on variable-rate loans, if the spread we charge over LIBOR or the prime rate were to decrease, the lower interest rates we would receive on these new loans receivable would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and, depending upon the rate of future prepayments, may further impact our results of operations. Prepayments on loans sold to the QSPEs generally will have a negative impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Prepayments of loans receivable with higher interest rates negatively impact the value of our Retained Interests to a greater extent than prepayments of loans receivable with lower interest rates. Prepayments in excess of assumptions will cause a decline in the fair value of our Retained Interests primarily relating to a reduction in the excess funds (our interest-only strip receivable) expected from our structured loan sale transactions. For example, if a $1.0 million loan with an interest rate of 10% prepays and the “all-in cost” of that QSPE’s structured notes was 7%, we would lose the 3% spread we had expected to receive on that loan in future periods. Our “all-in costs” include interest, servicing, trustee and other ongoing costs. The “spread” that is lost may be offset in part or in whole by any prepayment fee that we collect. Our SBLC sells the government guaranteed portion of most of its originated loans through private placements (“Secondary Market Sales”). These sales are particularly sensitive to prepayments. Our Retained Interests in these loan sales consists only of the spread between the interest collected from the borrower and the interest paid to the purchaser of the guaranteed portion of the loan. Therefore, to the extent the prepayments of these loans exceed estimates, we lose the estimated fair value of the associated Retained Interests. Our Board of Trust Managers may change operating policies and strategies without shareholder approval or prior notice and such change could harm our business and results of operations and the value of our common shares. Our Board of Trust Managers has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies, including PMC Commercial’s election to operate as a REIT, without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our common shares; however, the effect could be adverse. 15 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks In general, in order for us to repay indebtedness on a timely basis, we may be required to dispose of assets when we would not otherwise do so and at prices which may be below the net book value of such assets. Dispositions of assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments and Trends That May Affect Our Business.” Our operating results could be negatively impacted by our inability to access certain financial markets. We rely upon access to capital markets as a source of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, grow our business and invest in loans. Although we believe that we maintain sufficient access to these financial markets, adverse changes in the economy, the overall health of the limited service hospitality industry and increased loan losses could limit access to these markets and restrict us from continuing our current operating strategy or implementing new operating strategies. The market demand for structured loan transactions may decline, which would decrease the availability of, and/or increase the cost of, working capital and negatively affect earnings and the potential for growth. We will continue to need capital to fund loans. Historically, we have sold loans receivable as part of structured loan transactions, borrowed from financial institutions and issued equity securities to raise capital. A reduction in the availability of funds from financial institutions or the asset-backed securities market could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Our long-term ability to continue to grow depends, to a large extent, on our ability to sell asset-backed securities through structured loan transactions. In certain economic markets the availability of funds may be diminished or the “spread” charged for funds may increase causing us to delay a structured loan transaction. In addition, political or geopolitical events could impact the availability and cost of capital. A number of factors could impair our ability, or alter our decision, to complete a structured loan transaction. These factors include, but are not limited to: • As a result of certain economic conditions, investors in the type of asset-backed securities that we place may increase our cost of capital by widening the “spreads” (over a benchmark such as LIBOR or treasury rates) they require in order to purchase the asset-backed securities or cease acquiring our type of asset-backed security; • A deterioration in the performance of our loans receivable or the loans receivable of our prior transactions (for example, higher than expected loan losses or delinquencies) may deter potential investors from purchasing our asset-backed securities; • A deterioration in the operations or market perception of the limited service sector of the hospitality industry may deter potential investors from purchasing our asset-backed securities or lower the available rating from the rating agencies; and • A change in the underlying criteria utilized by the rating agencies may cause transactions to receive lower ratings than previously issued thereby increasing the cost on our transactions. Significant changes in any of these criteria may result in the temporary suspension of our use of structured loan transactions and we may seek other sources of financing. A reduction in the availability or an increased cost of this source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations since working capital may not be available or available at acceptable “spreads” to fund future loan originations or to acquire real estate. We use leverage to fund our capital needs which magnifies the effect of changing interest rates on our earnings. We have borrowed funds and intend to borrow additional funds. As a result, we use leverage to fund our capital needs. Private lenders and the SBA have fixed dollar claims on our assets superior to the claims of the holders of our common shares. Leverage magnifies the effect that rising or falling interest rates have on our earnings. Any increase in the interest rate earned on investments in excess of the interest rate on the funds obtained from borrowings would cause our net income and earnings per share to increase more than they would without leverage, while any decrease in the interest rate earned by us on investments would cause net income and earnings per share to decline by a greater amount than they would without leverage. Leverage is thus generally considered a speculative investment technique. 16 Table of Contents Operating Risks The occurrence of recent adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets has affected our business. In recent months, the mortgage industry has come under enormous pressure due to numerous economic and industry related factors. Many companies operating in the mortgage sector have failed and others are facing serious operating and financial challenges. At the same time, many mortgage securities have been downgraded and delinquencies and credit performance of mortgage loans, primarily residential, have deteriorated. We face significant challenges due to these adverse conditions in pricing and financing our mortgage assets. There is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. Recent adverse changes in the mortgage finance and credit markets have also eliminated or reduced the availability, or increased the cost, of significant sources of funding for us. Economic slowdowns, negative political events and changes in the competitive environment could adversely affect operating results. Several factors may impact the hospitality industry. Many of the businesses to which we have made, or will make, loans may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. During economic downturns, there may be reductions in business travel and consumers generally take fewer vacations. Bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events could negatively affect our borrowers. Our non-performing assets are likely to increase during these periods. These conditions could lead to losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our interest income, net income and assets. We believe the risks associated with our operations are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession. Declining real estate values may reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use existing property value increases to support investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to meet their debt service requirements if the real estate economy weakens. Furthermore, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our exposure. Increased payment defaults, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and our ability to make dividend distributions. Another factor which affects the limited service sector of the hospitality industry is a significant rise in gasoline prices within a short period of time. A significant portion of the limited service hospitality properties collateralizing our loans are located on interstate highways. When gas prices sharply increase, occupancy rates for properties located on interstate highways may decrease. These factors may cause a reduction in revenue per available room. If revenue for the limited service sector of the hospitality industry were to experience significant sustained reductions, the ability of our borrowers to meet their obligations could be impaired and loan losses could increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial and managerial resources than us and are able to provide services that we are not able to provide (i.e., depository services). As a result of these competitors’ size and diversified income resources, they may be better able to withstand the impact of economic downturns. There may be significant fluctuations in our quarterly results which may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate based on a number of factors, including, among others: • Interest rate changes; • The volume and timing of loan originations and prepayments of our loans receivable; • The recognition of gains or losses on investments; • The level of competition in our markets; and • General economic conditions, especially those which affect the hospitality industry. As a result of the above factors, quarterly results should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. 17 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of our key personnel (executive officers) who provide management services for the selection, acquisition, structuring, monitoring and sale of our portfolio assets and the borrowings used to acquire these assets. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers through June 2010. The loss of any executive officer could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and subsequent changes could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, we are regulated by the SBA. Changes in laws that govern our entities may significantly affect our business. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations are also subject to change. Any change in the laws or regulations governing our business could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. At any time, U.S. Federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations thereof may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 reduced the tax rate on both dividends and long-term capital gains for most non-corporate taxpayers to 15% through 2010. This reduced maximum tax rate generally does not apply to ordinary REIT dividends, which continue to be subject to tax at the higher tax rates applicable to ordinary income (a maximum rate of 35%). However, the 15% maximum tax rate does apply to certain REIT distributions. This legislation may cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. To the extent a loan becomes a problem loan, we will deliver a default notice and begin foreclosure and liquidation proceedings when we determine that pursuit of these remedies is the most appropriate course of action. Foreclosure and bankruptcy are complex and sometimes time consuming processes that are subject to Federal and state laws and regulations, as well as various guidelines imposed by mortgage investors. REIT Related Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject PMC Commercial to U.S. Federal income tax. If a company meets certain income and asset diversification and income distribution requirements under the Code, it can qualify as a REIT and be entitled to pass-through tax treatment. We would cease to qualify for pass-through tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these requirements. PMC Commercial is also subject to a non-deductible 4% excise tax (and, in certain cases, corporate level income tax) if we fail to make certain distributions. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to Federal income tax as if we were an ordinary corporation, resulting in a substantial reduction in both our net assets and the amount of income available for distribution to our shareholders. We believe that we have operated in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT under the Code and intend to continue to so operate. Although we believe that we are organized and operate as a REIT, no assurance can be given that we will continue to remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the Federal income tax consequences of such qualification. In addition, compliance with the REIT qualification tests could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in non-qualifying assets, which would negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 18 Table of Contents If PMC Commercial fails to qualify as a REIT, we may, among other things: • not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income; • be subject to U.S. Federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • be subject to increased state and local taxes; and, • unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the taxable year in which we lost our qualification and the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification. As a result of these factors, failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common shares. Ownership limitation associated with our REIT status may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities. In order for PMC Commercial to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve PMC Commercial’s REIT status, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding common shares or preferred shares without specific waiver from our Board of Trust Managers. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Failure to make required distributions to our shareholders would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity generally must distribute to its shareholders, each taxable year, at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding the non-distributed taxable income of taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, our shareholders receive periodic distributions from us. Such distributions are taxable as ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to Federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We have paid out, and intend to continue to pay out, our REIT taxable income to shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid Federal corporate income tax. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) because, for example, capital losses will be deducted in determining GAAP income, but may not be deductible in computing taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as excess non-cash income. Although some types of non-cash income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur Federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax with respect to any non-cash income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in that year. 19 Table of Contents Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. Subject to certain restrictions, a REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary generally will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to normal corporate income taxes. We continuously monitor the value of our investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). The aggregate value of our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities is less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There are no distribution requirements applicable to the taxable REIT subsidiaries and after-tax earnings may be retained. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 