Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplemental Data” of this Form 10-K. Due to our complexity, a wide range of factors could materially affect our future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations described elsewhere in this report, management has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in forward-looking statements or from our historical results. These factors, which are not all-inclusive, could have a material impact on our asset valuations, results of operations or financial condition and could also impair our ability to maintain dividend distributions at current or anticipated levels. We anticipate the completion of the merger with CIM REIT to occur no later than March 31, 2014; therefore, risk factors are provided for the operations of the combined company, CIM REIT and the lending activities of PMC Commercial Trust. General Risks - Combined Company If PMC Commercial fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in PMC Commercial’s financial and other public reporting, which would harm the business and the trading price of PMC Commercial’s common shares. CIM Urban was previously privately owned and not subject to complying with the rules and regulations applicable to publicly traded companies including, without limitation, those of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), national securities exchanges and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, federal and state securities laws and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). Following completion of the merger with CIM Urban, PMC Commercial will continue as a public company subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal controls over financial reporting. As such, PMC Commercial will be required to expand and integrate CIM Urban into its internal controls and procedures. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for PMC Commercial to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to integrate CIM Urban and its controls and procedures or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their integration or implementation, could cause PMC Commercial to fail to meet its reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by PMC Commercial or its independent registered public accounting firm conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may reveal deficiencies in PMC Commercial’s internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to its consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in PMC Commercial’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of PMC Commercial’s common shares. PMC Commercial is required to disclose changes made in its internal control procedures on a quarterly basis and its management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. Management’s and PMC Commercial’s independent registered public accounting firm’s assessment of these controls related to CIM Urban and its subsidiaries will not occur until PMC Commercial’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of PMC Commercial’s internal controls could detect problems that its management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in PMC Commercial’s internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require it to incur any expense of remediation. If PMC Commercial is unable to integrate successfully the operations of CIM Urban, its business and results of operations may be negatively affected. The merger involves the integration of companies, which previously operated as a publicly traded REIT and a privately owned limited partnership, that had operated independently from each other. Successful integration of the operations of CIM Urban will depend primarily on PMC Commercial’s ability to consolidate business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures. The merger also poses other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the operations of PMC Commercial and CIM Urban. PMC Commercial may not be able to integrate CIM Urban’s operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the loss of key employees, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, policies and procedures. If PMC Commercial has difficulties with any of these integrations, this may harm its business and/or financial results. 7 Table of Contents The future consolidated results of PMC Commercial and its subsidiaries, including CIM Urban, after the merger may suffer if PMC Commercial does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger. PMC Commercial may continue to expand its operations through additional acquisitions and other strategic transactions, some of which may involve complex challenges. The future success of PMC Commercial and its subsidiaries will depend, in part, upon its ability to manage its expansion opportunities, integrate new operations and business lines in an efficient and timely manner, successfully monitor its operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality and maintain other necessary internal controls. PMC Commercial’s expansion or acquisition opportunities may not be successful, and the combined company may not realize its expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits. PMC Commercial cannot assure you that it will be able to pay dividends. PMC Commercial plans to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.04375 per PMC Commercial common share after the merger, which is less than the historical PMC Commercial dividend paid. The payment of such dividends to PMC Commercial shareholders may be impacted by various factors, including the following: — We may not have enough capital resources to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position; — Holders of PMC Commercial preferred shares are entitled to receive dividends prior to holders of PMC Commercial common shares and there may be insufficient cash to pay dividends on PMC Commercial common shares after the payment of dividends to holders of the PMC Commercial preferred shares; — Decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future dividends will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Board of Trust Managers, which reserves the right to change PMC Commercial’s dividend practices at any time and for any reason; — To the extent that PMC Commercial obtains credit ratings, PMC Commercial may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings; and — The amount of dividends that PMC Commercial’s subsidiaries may distribute to PMC Commercial is subject to restrictions imposed by the SBA and may be subject to restrictions imposed by state law, restrictions that may be imposed by state regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur. PMC Commercial’s shareholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared. We operate in a highly regulated environment and subsequent changes could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, some of our lending operations are regulated by the SBA. Changes in laws that govern our entities may significantly affect our business. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations are also subject to change. Any change in the laws or regulations governing our business could have a material impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and/or results of operations. As a company whose common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Various changes to GAAP are constantly being considered, some of which could materially impact our reported financial condition and/or results of operations. Also, to the extent publicly traded companies in the U.S. would be required in the future to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of the current GAAP in the U.S, this change in accounting standards could materially impact our reported financial condition and/or results of operations. 8 Table of Contents PMC Commercial depends on the experience and expertise of its key personnel and the loss of the services of its key personnel could have a material adverse affect on our business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the efforts, diligence, skill, network of business contacts and close supervision of all aspects of our business by our executive management team and following completion of the merger, the senior management team of CIM Urban REIT Management, L.P. (“Advisor), a limited partnership that provides day-to-day management of CIM Urban’s operations. The loss of any members of executive management could harm PMC Commercial’s business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the loss of either of the executive officers of PMC Commercial Trust would cause an event of default on PMC Commercial Trust’s revolving credit facility. CIM Service Provider, LLC (“Manager”) will have the right to manage the business of PMC Commercial and certain of its subsidiaries pursuant to a Master Services Agreement and other investment management agreements. Notwithstanding the fact that these agreements provide broad discretion and authority and the payment of fees to the Manager, the agreements may be assigned by the Manager in certain circumstances without PMC Commercial’s consent and may not be terminated by PMC Commercial, except in the case of the Master Services Agreement, in limited circumstances for cause, either or both of which may have a material adverse effect on PMC Commercial. Effective upon completion of the merger, the Manager and PMC Commercial will enter into the Master Services Agreement pursuant to which the Manager has the right to provide or designate third parties to provide various management and administrative services to PMC Commercial and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. PMC Commercial will be obligated to pay the Manager a quarterly base service fee of $250,000 for the provision of base services and market rate transaction fees for transactional and other services that the Manager elects to provide to PMC Commercial. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Services Agreement, the Manager will have the right to provide any transactional services to PMC Commercial that it would otherwise engage a third party to provide. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Services Agreement, the Manager may also recommend new business opportunities to PMC Commercial for its approval and will make a recommendation as to whether each such new business should be internally managed or externally managed and if externally managed, the external manager and the terms of the management agreement. If the proposed external manager is to be the Manager, PMC Commercial’s independent Trust Managers must approve the decision to make such new business externally managed and terms of the applicable management agreement. If such new business is to be internally managed, the Manager will oversee the hiring of personnel and the implementation of internal management as a transactional service. The Master Services Agreement continues in full force and effect until December 31, 2018, and thereafter will renew automatically each year. PMC Commercial may generally only terminate the Master Services Agreement for the Manager’s material breach of the Master Services Agreement, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct or if in certain limited circumstances, a change of control of the Manager occurs that PMC Commercial’s independent Trust Managers determine to be materially detrimental to PMC Commercial and its subsidiaries as a whole. PMC Commercial does not have the right to terminate the Master Services Agreement solely for the poor performance of PMC Commercial’s operations or any investment made by PMC Commercial on the recommendation of the Manager. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement, PMC Commercial has agreed to appoint a member of the Manager or any of its affiliates, as designated by the Manager, as the manager (the “Urban GP Manager”) of Urban Partners GP, LLC, the general partner of CIM Urban (“CIM Urban GP”). In addition, any removal of Urban GP Manager as manager of CIM Urban GP pursuant to the Master Services Agreement will not affect the rights of the Manager under the Master Services Agreement. Accordingly, the Manager will continue to provide the base services and receive the base service fee, and the Manager or the applicable service provider will continue to provide the transactional services and receive the transaction fees, under the Master Services Agreement. Further, the Master Services Agreement may be assigned by the Manager without the consent of PMC Commercial in the case of an assignment by the Manager to an affiliate or an entity that is a successor through merger or acquisition of the business of the Manager. In certain circumstances, including the merger or other acquisition of the business of the Manager, the amount of fees being paid pursuant to the agreements or the poor performance by the Manager, PMC Commercial may desire to terminate one or more of the management agreements. As a result of the limited termination rights under these agreements, it may not have the right to terminate such agreement(s), which could have a material adverse effect on PMC Commercial. 9 Table of Contents Future sales of PMC Commercial’s common shares may cause its market price to drop significantly, even if PMC Commercial’s business is doing well. Urban Partners II, LLC (“Urban II”), the members of which will be CIM REIT and CIM Urban Partners GP, LLC, is entitled to registration rights, subject to certain limitations, with respect to the PMC Commercial securities it will receive upon completion of the merger pursuant to the Registration Rights and Lockup Agreement. Urban II is entitled to require PMC Commercial, on up to eight occasions, to register under the Securities Act of 1933 the PMC Commercial common shares it receives in the merger and the PMC Commercial common shares issuable upon conversion of the PMC Commercial preferred shares it receives in the merger. In accordance with lockup provisions included in the Registration Rights and Lockup Agreement, Urban II is not permitted to engage in public sales of the PMC Commercial common shares it receives in the merger (and the PMC Commercial common shares issuable upon conversion of the PMC Commercial preferred shares it receives in the merger) until after the 12-month anniversary of the consummation of the merger without restriction, provided that these restrictions do not apply with respect to 40 million PMC Commercial common shares six months following the merger with the prior approval of a majority of the independent Trust Managers. There shall be no lockup restrictions applied to private sales of transfer of such shares. Following the expiration of the lockup restrictions, there may be significant pent-up demand by CIM REIT to sell its PMC Commercial common shares. A large volume of sales of PMC Commercial common shares could decrease the prevailing market price of the PMC Commercial common shares and could impair PMC Commercial’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. Even if a substantial number of sales of PMC Commercial common shares do not occur, the mere perception of the possibility of these sales could depress the market price of PMC Commercial common shares and have a negative effect on PMC Commercial’s ability to raise capital in the future. Certain of PMC Commercial’s Trust Managers and executive officers after the merger may face conflicts of interest related to positions they hold with the Advisor, CIM Group and their affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interest of PMC Commercial’s shareholders. Following completion of the merger, PMC Commercial anticipates that some of its Trust Managers and executive officers will be individuals who are also part owners, officers and directors of CIM Group, the Advisor, the Manager and their affiliates. As a result, they may owe fiduciary duties to these various other entities and their equity owners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties they owe to PMC Commercial and its shareholders. Further, these multiple responsibilities may create conflicts of interest for these individuals if they are presented with opportunities that may benefit PMC Commercial and their other affiliates. The individuals may be incentivized to allocate investment opportunities to other entities rather than to PMC Commercial. Their loyalties to other affiliated entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to PMC Commercial’s business, strategy and investment opportunities. If PMC Commercial and CIM Urban seek to internalize the management functions provided pursuant to the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement, there is no assurance that PMC Commercial could reach agreements with the Manager and the Advisor and PMC Commercial could incur substantial costs and lose certain key personnel. At some point in the future, the Board of Trust Managers may determine that it is in the best interest of PMC Commercial and CIM Urban to become self-managed by internalizing the functions performed by the Manager and the Advisor and to terminate the Master Services Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement. However, neither PMC Commercial nor CIM Urban has the unilateral right to terminate the Master Services Agreement or the Investment Management Agreement, and neither the Manager nor the Advisor would be obligated to enter into an internalization transaction with PMC Commercial or CIM Urban. There is no assurance that a mutually acceptable agreement with these entities as to the terms of the internalization could be reached. In addition, the costs that PMC Commercial and CIM Urban would incur in any such internalization transaction are uncertain and could be substantial. Further, if PMC Commercial and CIM Urban were to internalize these management functions, certain key employees may not become employees of PMC Commercial but may instead remain employees of the Manager and the Advisor or their respective affiliates, especially if the management functions are internalized but the Manager and the Advisor are not acquired by PMC Commercial. An inability to manage an internalization transaction could effectively result in PMC Commercial incurring excess costs and suffering deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or its internal control over financial reporting. These deficiencies could cause it to incur additional costs, and management’s attention could be diverted from most effectively managing its investments, which could result in it incurring unanticipated costs in connection with any internalization transaction. 10 Table of Contents The Manager’s and Advisor’s fees are payable regardless of CIM Urban’s and PMC Commercial’s performance, which may reduce their incentive to devote time and resources to CIM Urban’s portfolio. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement which will become effective after the merger, the Manager will be entitled to receive a base services fee of $1 million per year, regardless of the performance of PMC Commercial, and will also be entitled to receive fees related to the provision of transactional and other services. The Advisor will be entitled to receive an asset management fee based upon the gross asset value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future. The Manager’s and the Advisor’s entitlement to substantial non-performance based compensation might reduce their incentive to devote their time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for CIM Urban’s portfolio. The Advisor, the Manager and their respective affiliates may engage in additional management or investment opportunities which compete with PMC Commercial and its subsidiaries, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of PMC Commercial’s shareholders. The Investment Management Agreement with the Advisor and the Master Services Agreement with the Manager do not prevent the Advisor and the Manager, as applicable, and their respective affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with PMC Commercial and its subsidiaries. The Advisor, the Manager and their respective affiliates may engage in additional management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with CIM Urban, and may thus face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to these other investments. Allocation of investment opportunities is at the discretion of the Advisor and/or the Manager and there is no guarantee that this allocation would be made in the best interest of the PMC Commercial shareholders. Risks Related to the Merger Our shareholders will experience significant immediate dilution in percentage ownership and effective voting power as a consequence of the issuance of the common shares and preferred shares to Urban II as consideration in the merger. The merger will significantly dilute the ownership position and effective voting power of our shareholders as of the merger date. Following the issuance of the common shares and preferred shares to Urban II pursuant to the merger agreement (and assuming conversion of the preferred shares pursuant to the merger agreement), our shareholders at the merger date will hold approximately 2.2% of the common shares issued and outstanding immediately after consummation of the merger. Our shareholders cannot be certain of the market value of the common shares and preferred shares that will be issued to Urban II if the merger is completed. In connection with the closing of the merger, we will issue 22,000,003 common shares and 65,028,571 preferred shares to Urban II. Because the number of shares to be issued in connection with the merger is fixed, the market value of the shares issued in connection with the merger will depend upon the market price of a common share upon completion of the merger. The market value of our common shares will fluctuate prior to completion of the merger and therefore may be different at the time the merger is consummated than it was at the time the merger agreement was negotiated, signed and at the time of the special meeting on February 11, 2014. Share price changes may result from a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including general market and economic conditions and changes in business prospects. Accordingly, our shareholders cannot be certain of the market value of the shares that will be issued to Urban II in connection with the merger or the market value of our common shares at any time after the merger. The market price of our common shares may decline as a result of the merger. The market price of our common shares may decline as a result of the merger if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as or to the extent anticipated by its shareholders or financial or industry analysts, or the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of our shareholders or financial or industry analysts. In addition, following the merger, our shareholders will own interests in a company with an expanded business with a different mix of assets, risks and liabilities. Existing shareholders may not wish to continue to invest in us post-merger, or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of their common shares. If, following the merger, large amounts of common shares were sold, the price of common shares could decline substantially. 11 Table of Contents The merger will result in changes to the Board of Trust Managers and initially, a majority of the Trust Managers will be affiliated with the Advisor and will not be independent; and Urban II will have effective control over the outcome of all actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, which might adversely affect the market price of our common shares. After the closing of the merger and assuming conversion of the preferred shares, Urban II will own approximately 97.8% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, PMC Commercial will be a “controlled company,” which is a company in which over 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company. As a “controlled company,” we will not be required to comply with certain national securities exchange rules requiring a board of directors with a majority of independent directors, a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors and a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors. Our other shareholders will not have the same corporate governance protections that they would otherwise have if we were not a controlled company. Urban II will have the ability to determine the outcome of all corporate actions of PMC Commercial requiring shareholder approval, including the ability to elect or remove all of the Trust Managers. Following the closing of the merger, the Board of Trust Managers will consist of four Trust Managers who are affiliated with the Advisor and three independent Trust Managers who were recommended for membership on the Board of Trust Managers by the Advisor. Accordingly, we will not have the benefit of a Board of Trust Managers with a majority of independent Trust Managers, and there is a risk that the interests of Urban II and these Trust Managers will not be consistent with the interests of other holders of common shares. In addition to the effects described above, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common shares. After the merger is completed, Urban II will control the vote required for the conversion of the preferred shares into common shares to occur, which could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares (and preferred shares) if such conversion is delayed or does not occur at all. The Board of Trust Managers has authorized the issuance of preferred shares, consisting of 65,028,571 Class A Convertible Cumulative Preferred Shares, $.01 par value per share (liquidation preference $17.50 per share). The preferred shares will rank senior to our common shares, as to distributions and with respect to distribution rights or payments upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of PMC Commercial. The holders of the preferred shares will be entitled to receive, when and as authorized by the Board of Trust Managers and declared by PMC Commercial, cumulative distributions at the rate of 2% of $35.00 per share per year; provided that if the preferred shares are converted on or before the date that is six months from the effective date of the merger (which date may be extended due to certain force majeure events as provided for under the terms of the preferred shares), the distribution amount payable on the preferred shares will be calculated at the rate of 3.5% of $35.00 per year. Pursuant to the merger agreement, each preferred share will automatically convert into seven common shares on the first business day on which, pursuant to our Declaration of Trust, there are sufficient authorized but unissued shares to convert all of the preferred shares into common shares. Pursuant to the merger agreement, if the merger is completed, CIM REIT has agreed to cause PMC Commercial, and PMC Commercial has agreed, to hold another meeting of our shareholders as soon as practicable thereafter to approve, among other things, an increase in the number of authorized common shares to one billion (thereby satisfying the condition for the automatic conversion of the preferred shares issued in connection with the merger into an aggregate of 455,199,997 common shares). After the merger is completed, Urban II will hold a sufficient number of shares to control the vote required for the conversion of the preferred shares to occur. In the event that the conversion of the preferred shares into common shares is delayed or does not occur at all, the rights of the holders of common shares (as well as the preferred shares) could be materially and adversely affected. After the merger is completed, Urban II is expected to make a reincorporation occur, which will cause the holders of common shares to have different rights that may be less advantageous than their current rights. After the closing of the merger, our shareholders are expected to be asked to approve a reincorporation so that PMC Commercial’s corporate governance and the rights of its shareholders will be governed by Maryland law, a Maryland charter and Maryland bylaws, instead of Texas law, our existing Declaration of Trust and existing bylaws. Urban II will hold a sufficient number of shares to control the vote required to make the reincorporation occur. Following any reincorporation, holders of our common shares will have different rights that may be less advantageous than the rights they currently have. 12 Table of Contents PMC Commercial and CIM REIT have entered into a settlement regarding the derivative and class action litigation related to the merger and other transactions; the settlement remains subject to final court approval and completion of the merger, and there is no assurance that any or all of our shareholders will benefit from such settlement. On October 9, 2013, certain of our shareholders filed a lawsuit against PMC Commercial, members of PMC Commercial’s Board of Trust Managers and executive officers and CIM REIT challenging the proposed merger. As of January 28, 2014, PMC Commercial and the other defendants entered into a settlement agreements with such PMC Commercial shareholders to settle the derivative and class action litigation. While the settlement required Manager to implement a trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 immediately following the closing of the merger to purchase up to 2.75 million shares of PMC Commercial at prices up to $5.00 per share, there can be no assurance as to the impact that the trading plan will have upon the liquidity or market price for such shares. Under the terms of the settlement, the trading plan, will, in general, expire on the date that 2.75 million shares have been purchased or August 10, 2014, whichever is earlier. There can be no assurance that all 2.75 million shares will be purchased by August 10, 2014, in which case any benefits of the trading plan to our shareholders may not be fully realized. Further, there can be no assurance that the PMC Commercial common shares held by any particular shareholder may be purchased under the trading plan because the number of outstanding PMC Commercial common shares substantially exceeds 2.75 million shares. Further, the terms of the trading plan and compliance with applicable law may limit the number of shares that can effectively be purchased under the trading plan to less than 2.75 million shares. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that all shareholders who desire to have their shares purchased under the trading plan will be able to do so or that any such shareholder will be able to have the desired number of shares purchased or at an attractive price. Additionally, because the settlement remains subject to final court approval and is conditioned on completion of the merger, there is no assurance that the terms of the settlement, including the trading plan, will be implemented. Finally, after the trading plan is complete, the trading market for our shares may be negatively affected due to decreased float, trading volume or liquidity. Any such reduction in float, trading volume or liquidity may make it more difficult to buy or sell our shares without affecting the market price or at all. Risks Related to CIM Urban’s Business and Properties The following risk factors apply to the business and operations of CIM Urban and also will apply to the consolidated business and operations of PMC Commercial upon completion of the merger anticipated no later than March 31, 2014. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect the combined company’s business, prospects, ability to pay dividends, revenues, gross profit, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect demand for CIM Urban’s properties and the overall availability and cost of credit. In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, demand for CIM Urban’s properties and the overall availability and cost of credit may be adversely affected. No assurances can be given that the capital and credit market conditions will not have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, CIM Urban’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected by significant volatility in the capital and credit markets as follows: — The tenants in CIM Urban’s office properties may experience a deterioration in their sales or other revenue, or experience a constraint on the availability of credit necessary to fund operations, which in turn may adversely impact those tenants’ ability to pay contractual base rents and tenant recoveries. Some tenants may terminate their occupancy due to an inability to operate profitably for an extended period of time, impacting CIM Urban’s ability to maintain occupancy levels; — Constraints on the availability of credit to tenants, necessary to purchase and install improvements, fixtures and equipment and to fund start-up business expenses, could impact CIM Urban’s ability to procure new tenants for spaces currently vacant in existing office properties or properties under development; and — CIM Urban’s joint venture and other co-investment partners could experience difficulty obtaining financing in the future for the same reasons discussed above. Their inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, could negatively impact CIM Urban’s ability to acquire additional properties. 13 Table of Contents Current general economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the office, lodging and apartment communities industries. The United States continues to be in a post-recessionary slow-growth environment, which has experienced historically high levels of unemployment. Uncertainty over the depth and duration of this economic environment continues to have a negative impact on the office, lodging and apartment communities industries. There is some general consensus among economists that the economy in the United States emerged from a recessionary environment in 2009, but high unemployment levels were evident in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. As a result, CIM Urban and the office, lodging and apartment communities industries may, among other things, experience reductions in revenue resulting from lower rental rates and occupancy levels. Accordingly, CIM Urban’s financial results could be impacted by the economic environment, and future financial results and growth could be further harmed until a more expansive national economic environment is prevalent. A weaker than anticipated economic recovery, or a return to a recessionary national economic environment, could result in low or decreased levels of business and consumer travel, negatively impacting the lodging industry. Moreover, in the event of another recession, the office and apartment communities industries could experience reductions in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations and increases in operating costs such as advertising and turnover expenses. Such an economic outcome could also negatively impact CIM Urban and its tenants’ future growth prospects and could significantly impact their results of operations. CIM Urban’s operating performance is subject to risks associated with the lodging industry. The success of CIM Urban’s hotel properties depends largely on the property operators’ ability to adapt to dominant trends in the lodging industry as well as disruptions such as greater competitive pressures, increased consolidation, industry overbuilding, dependence on consumer spending patterns and changing demographics, the introduction of new concepts and products, availability of labor, price levels and macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions. The success of a particular hotel brand, the ability of a hotel brand to fulfill any obligations to operators of its business, and trends in the lodging industry may affect CIM Urban’s income and cash available for dividends. The lodging industry could also experience a significant decline in occupancy and average daily rates due to a reduction in business and/or leisure travel. General economic conditions, increased fuel costs, natural disasters and terrorist attacks are a few factors that could affect an individual’s willingness to travel. A majority of CIM Urban’s properties, by aggregate net operating income and square feet, are located in California and the District of Columbia. CIM Urban is dependent on the California and the District of Columbia office and hotel markets and economics, and is therefore susceptible to risks of events in those markets that could adversely affect CIM Urban’s business, such as adverse market conditions, changes in local laws or regulations and natural disasters. Because CIM Urban’s properties in California (and particularly, in Oakland, California) and the District of Columbia represent a significant portion of CIM Urban’s portfolio by aggregate net operating income and square feet, CIM Urban is exposed to greater economic risks than if it owned a more geographically dispersed portfolio. CIM Urban is susceptible to adverse developments in the California (and particularly, in Oakland) and the District of Columbia economic and regulatory environments (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation and other factors) as well as natural disasters that occur in these areas (such as earthquakes, floods and other events). In addition, the State of California is also regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office and hotel space in California. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate markets in California (and particularly, in Oakland) or the District of Columbia, or any decrease in demand for office or hotel space resulting from the California (and particularly, in Oakland) or the District of Columbia regulatory or business environments, could adversely impact CIM Urban’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Investments in office buildings that have government tenants are subject to the risks associated with conducting business with the Federal government. Investments in office buildings that have government tenants are subject to risks associated with conducting business with the Federal government. Congressional action to reduce budgetary spending by the United States could limit the funding of government agencies or other organizations. Adverse developments and/or conditions affecting government tenants could reduce demand for space, impact the credit-worthiness of such tenants or force such tenants to curtail operations, which could impair their ability to meet their rent obligations to CIM Urban and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban’s results of operations. The risks of conducting business with the Federal government also include the risk of civil and criminal fines and the risk of public scrutiny of CIM Urban’s performance at high profile sites. 14 Table of Contents CIM Urban’s operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond the control of CIM Urban. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends, as well as the value of CIM Urban’s properties. These events include, but are not limited to: — Adverse changes in economic and socioeconomic conditions; — Vacancies or CIM Urban’s inability to rent space on favorable terms; — Adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; — Inability to collect rent from tenants; — Competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; — Reductions in the level of demand for office, hotel and apartment community space and changes in the relative popularity of properties; — Increases in the supply of office, hotel and apartment community space; — Fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect CIM Urban’s ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; — Dependence on third parties to provide leasing, brokerage, property management and other services with respect to CIM Urban’s investments; — Increases in expenses, including insurance costs, labor costs, utility prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and government policies, and CIM Urban’s inability to pass on some or all of these increases to CIM Urban’s tenants; and — Changes in and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and government policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”). In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If CIM Urban cannot operate its properties so as to meet its financial expectations, CIM Urban’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy its debt service obligations and to pay dividends could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that CIM Urban can achieve its economic objectives. Tenant concentration increases the risk that cash flow could be interrupted. CIM Urban is, and expects that it will continue to be, subject to a degree of tenant concentration at certain of its properties. In the event that a tenant occupying a significant portion of one or more of CIM Urban’s properties or whose rental income represents a significant portion of the rental revenue at such property or properties were to experience financial weakness or file bankruptcy, it would more negatively impact CIM Urban’s financial condition and results of operations than if the tenant did not occupy multiple properties or occupied a smaller portion of a single property. CIM Urban has a concentration of government tenants across its portfolio. The reduction of government funding for such government agencies and other organizations and changes in regulations governing such agencies and organizations could have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban’s investments in office buildings with government tenants. CIM Urban may become subject to risk and liabilities unique to joint venture relationships. CIM Urban owns properties through “joint venture” investments in which it co-invests with other investors. CIM Urban’s business plan contemplates further acquisitions of properties through joint ventures and sales to institutions of partial ownership of properties that it wholly owns. Real estate is relatively difficult to sell quickly. CIM Urban may be unable to realize its investment objectives by a sale of equity at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in domestic or international economic conditions and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Joint venture investments involve certain risks, including that joint venture partners may control or share certain approval rights over major decisions or might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the business interests of CIM Urban or goals that would affect CIM Urban’s ability to operate the property. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events could adversely affect CIM Urban’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and CIM Urban’s ability to pay dividends. 15 Table of Contents CIM Urban’s success depends on the ability of the Advisor to manage its investments, and the Advisor’s failure to manage its investments in a sufficient manner could have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban’s business strategy, the value of its real estate investments and results of operations. CIM Urban presently has no employees. CIM Urban depends on the Advisor’s ability to manage its investments in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase revenues and to generate sufficient revenues in excess of its operating and other expenses. The Advisor is not required to dedicate any particular number of employees or employee hours to CIM Urban’s business in order to fulfill its obligations under the Investment Management Agreement entered into between CIM Urban and the Advisor. CIM Urban believes that its success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of the Advisor’s senior management team, whose continued service is not guaranteed. CIM Urban is subject to the risk that upon termination of the Investment Management Agreement, no suitable replacement will be found to manage CIM Urban. If the Investment Management Agreement is terminated, CIM Urban may not be able to execute its business plan and may suffer losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to make distributions. The Advisor’s failure to manage CIM Urban and its investments will adversely affect the underlying value of CIM Urban’s real estate investments, the results of its operations and its ability to make distributions and to pay amounts due on its indebtedness. The terms of the Investment Management Agreement provide that it can only be terminated by the mutual agreement of CIM Urban and the Advisor. Accordingly, CIM Urban is subject to the further risk that it does not have the ability to unilaterally terminate the Investment Management Agreement in the event of the Advisor’s poor performance. The Advisor’s fees are based on the gross asset value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future. This fee arrangement may lead the Advisor to recommend riskier investments regardless of their long-term performance in an effort to maximize its compensation. The Advisor’s fees are based on the gross asset value of CIM Urban’s assets, including any assets acquired by CIM Urban in the future, which may provide incentive for the Advisor to invest in assets that are riskier investments regardless of their performance. Consequently, the Advisor may recommend investments that are not necessarily in the best interests of PMC Commercial’s shareholders in order to maximize its compensation. Neither CIM Urban nor PMC Commercial has the right pursuant to the terms of the Investment Management Agreement to terminate unilaterally the Investment Management Agreement in the event of CIM Urban’s poor investment performance or mismanagement by the Advisor. CIM Urban competes with current and future investment entities affiliated with the Advisor for access to the benefits that CIM Urban’s relationship with the Advisor provides to CIM Urban, including access to investment opportunities. There may be conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities to CIM Urban and other funds, investment vehicles and ventures managed by the Advisor. For example, the Advisor currently serves as the investment manager of CIM VI (Urban REIT), LLC and its parallel funds (collectively, “CIM VI”), a private fund formed to invest in substantially stabilized real estate and real estate-related assets located in urban areas that CIM Group has already qualified for investment. There will be a significant overlap in the assets and investment strategies of CIM Urban and CIM VI, and many of the same investment personnel will provide services to both entities. Although there are no contractual restrictions limiting the ability of CIM Urban to acquire additional properties, it is the intention of CIM Group not to provide CIM Urban with acquisition opportunities until the equity capital of CIM VI is fully committed. Further, the Advisor and its affiliates may in the future form additional funds or sponsor additional investment vehicles and ventures that have overlapping objectives with CIM Urban and therefore may compete with CIM Urban for investment opportunities. The ability of the Advisor, the Manager and their officers and employees to engage in other business activities, including the management of other investment vehicles sponsored by CIM Group, may reduce the time the Advisor and the Manager spend managing the activities of CIM Urban and PMC Commercial. The business of CIM Urban will be managed by Urban GP Manager, an affiliate of CIM Group, and PMC Commercial will have limited rights with respect to the management and control of CIM Urban. Pursuant to the Master Services Agreement, PMC Commercial has agreed to appoint Urban GP Manager as the manager of CIM Urban GP. Subject to the limitations set forth in the governing documents of CIM Urban and the CIM Urban GP, the Urban GP Manager will have the power and authority to manage, to direct the management, 16 Table of Contents business and affairs of and to make all decisions to be made by or on behalf of (1) the CIM Urban GP and (2) CIM Urban. PMC Commercial is an indirect limited partner of CIM Urban; the rights and obligations of PMC Commercial are subject to the limitations set forth in CIM Urban’s partnership agreement (the “CIM Urban Partnership Agreement”); and except as set forth in the Master Services Agreement and the rights specifically reserved to limited partners by the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement and applicable law, PMC Commercial has no part in the management and control of CIM Urban. PMC Commercial may only remove the Urban GP Manager as the manager of the CIM Urban GP for “cause” as defined in the Master Services Agreement). Removal for “cause” also requires the approval of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of PMC Commercial (excluding for this purpose any shares held by the Manager and any affiliates of the Manager, except to the extent set forth in the immediately following sentence). Notwithstanding the foregoing, CIM REIT will have the right to vote any shares of PMC Commercial that it owns with respect to any vote held to remove the Urban GP Manager as the manager of the CIM Urban GP; provided, however, if any such removal vote is held after the second anniversary of the Master Services Agreement, CIM REIT shall obtain voting instructions from certain of its non-affiliated investors with respect to voting the shares beneficially owned by such non-affiliated investors and CIM REIT shall vote the number of shares beneficially owned by such non-affiliated investor as so instructed by such non-affiliated investor. Upon removal, a replacement manager will be appointed by the independent Trust Managers. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement is in place and CIM Urban will be subject to the investment limitations set forth therein, unless approved by CIM Urban’s advisory committee, which may inhibit CIM Urban’s ability to make investments that otherwise meet its investment strategy. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement, as may be amended from time to time, is in place. Accordingly, CIM Urban is subject to the investment limitations set forth therein, and, without the approval of its advisory committee, which consists of representatives of certain non-affiliated members of CIM REIT, it may not: — Invest more than the lesser of (1) 25% of the aggregate capital commitment of its partners and (2) $500 million of capital contributions to any one asset or company; provided, however, that the foregoing limitation shall not apply to an investment consisting of a portfolio of, or a company or other entity owning, multiple assets (i.e., the foregoing limitation shall apply to each individual asset in any such portfolio or entity); — (1) invest more than 25% of the aggregate capital commitments of its partners in any metropolitan statistical area (“MSA”) with a population of 1,000,000 or less or in any recognized real estate submarket of an MSA with a population of more than 1,000,000 or (2) invest more than 50% of the aggregate capital commitments of its partners in any MSA with a population of more than 1,000,000; — Invest in the securities of a publicly traded company, except as part of a transaction or series of transactions designed for the purpose of acquiring control of the company and/or its underlying assets; and — Acquire or originate any senior debt (i.e., first mortgage loans) if the acquisition or origination by CIM Urban of such senior debt would cause the aggregate adjusted fair value of all CIM Urban investments that are senior debt to equal or exceed 25% of the aggregate adjusted fair value of all CIM Urban investments (including, without duplication, any property level reserves with respect to such investments). Accordingly, CIM Urban may not be able to acquire certain investments that otherwise meet its investment strategy. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement contains provisions that give rights to certain unaffiliated members of CIM REIT to influence the business and operations of CIM Urban; such members may have interests that are adverse to PMC Commercial’s shareholders and the exercise of such rights may negatively impact the rights of PMC Commercial’s shareholders or the business of PMC Commercial. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement requires that CIM Urban maintain an advisory committee composed of certain members of CIM REIT who are not affiliated with the general partner of CIM Urban. The advisory committee is responsible for resolving conflicts of interest and selecting a new audit firm for CIM Urban. CIM Urban also may not take certain actions (including those described below) or make certain investments without the consent of the advisory committee. Since the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement will not be amended or modified to eliminate the rights of the advisory committee, the advisory committee will continue to be comprised of members of CIM REIT. If the advisory committee refuses to consent to certain actions or arrangements of CIM Urban, it may adversely affect the ability of CIM Urban to manage or expand its business. 17 Table of Contents The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement requires the consent of a majority in interest of certain members of CIM REIT in order to amend the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement and the Investment Management Agreement. In certain situations, upon a two-thirds vote of certain members of CIM REIT, the general partner of CIM Urban may be removed and replaced. The refusal to permit amendment of the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement or the removal of the general partner by the members of CIM REIT may adversely impact PMC Commercial. The CIM Urban Partnership Agreement specifies that CIM Urban is responsible for the operating expenses and obligations of CIM REIT, as well as certain out-of-pocket operating expenses of CIM Urban GP. CIM Urban also has indemnity obligations to CIM Urban GP, the Advisor, any member of the advisory committee and their respective affiliates under the terms of the CIM Urban Partnership Agreement. These obligations may result in material liabilities to CIM Urban. CIM Urban may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant office space. Expiring leases may not be renewed, or may be re-leased at rental rates equal to or below existing rental rates. Substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, concessions, early termination rights or below market renewal options may be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. Accordingly, portions of CIM Urban’s office properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time. In addition, some existing leases currently provide tenants with options to renew the terms of their leases at rates that are less than the current market rate or to terminate their leases prior to the expiration date thereof. If CIM Urban is unable to obtain rental rates that are on average comparable to its asking rents across its office portfolio, then its ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. CIM Urban’s business operations in California, New York, North Carolina, Texas and the District of Columbia are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, volcanoes, wind, blizzards, floods, landslides, drought and fires. These adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to the properties in the portfolio, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of its properties, by aggregate net income and square feet, in California and the District of Columbia. CIM Urban’s insurance may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters. CIM Urban does not maintain insurance on its properties for earthquakes, except for those properties for which the lender requires such insurance coverage. In addition, CIM Urban’s insurance policies include customary deductibles and limitations on recovery. As a result, CIM Urban may be required to incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. CIM Urban may discontinue part or all of any insurance coverage on some or all of its properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in its judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Furthermore, CIM Urban may not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by war or by certain environmental conditions, such as mold or asbestos. In addition, its title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of its portfolio, and CIM Urban may not increase its title insurance coverage if the market value of its portfolio increases. As a result, CIM Urban may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that CIM Urban may experience, including from adverse title claims. If CIM Urban experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, it could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, CIM Urban’s properties may not be able to be rebuilt to their existing height or size at their existing location under current land-use laws and policies. In the event that CIM Urban experiences a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of its properties, it may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements. Terrorism and other factors affecting demand for the properties of CIM Urban could harm its operating results. The strength and profitability of CIM Urban’s business depends on demand for and the value of its properties. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and the District of Columbia on September 11, 2001 and in Boston on April 15, 2013, and other acts of terrorism or war may have a negative impact on its operations. Such terrorist attacks could have an adverse impact on its business even if they are not directed at its properties. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and CIM Urban’s insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co-payments. Although CIM Urban maintains terrorism insurance coverage on its portfolio, the lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose CIM Urban to significant losses and could have a negative impact on its operations. 18 Table of Contents CIM Urban faces competition. CIM Urban’s office portfolio competes with a number of developers, owners and operators of office real estate, many of which own properties similar to CIM Urban in the same markets in which its properties are located. If CIM Urban’s competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates CIM Urban currently charges its tenants, CIM Urban may lose existing or potential tenants and it may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those it currently charges or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below market renewal options in order to retain tenants when its tenants’ leases expire. In that case, CIM Urban’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy its debt service obligations and to pay dividends may be adversely affected. CIM Urban’s hotel portfolio competes for guests primarily with other hotels in the immediate vicinity of CIM Urban’s hotels and secondarily with other hotels in the geographical market of CIM Urban’s hotels. An increase in the number of competitive hotels in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on the occupancy, average daily rate and revenue per available room of CIM Urban’s hotels in that area. There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with CIM Urban’s apartment communities in attracting residents. These include other apartment communities and single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the communities are located. If the demand for CIM Urban’s apartment communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities, rental rates may drop, which may have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban’s financial condition and results of operations. CIM Urban also faces competition from other real estate investment funds, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. This competition may result in an increase in costs and prices of apartment communities that CIM Urban acquires and/or develops. Because CIM Urban owns real property, it is subject to extensive environmental regulation which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under some of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on or migrating to or from its property. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site. These laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination. Contamination resulting from any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect CIM Urban’s ability to sell or rent its property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages. For example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials. In other cases, some of the properties of CIM Urban may have been impacted by contamination from past operations or from off-site sources. As a result, CIM Urban may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties and damages under environmental laws. Although most of CIM Urban’s properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase 1 assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase 1 assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property. Unless required by applicable law, CIM Urban may decide not to further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase 1 assessments. Further, these or other environmental studies may not identify all potential environmental liabilities or accurately assess whether CIM Urban will incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If CIM Urban does incur material environmental liabilities in the future, it may face significant remediation costs, and it may find it difficult to sell any affected properties. Compliance with the ADA and fire, safety and other regulations may require CIM Urban to make unanticipated expenditures that could significantly reduce the cash available for dividends. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although CIM Urban believes that its properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, it has not conducted an audit or investigation of all of its properties to determine its compliance. If one or 19 Table of Contents more of its properties or future properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then CIM Urban would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to its properties or restrict its ability to renovate its properties. CIM Urban cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. In addition, CIM Urban properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If CIM Urban were to fail to comply with these various requirements, it might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. If CIM Urban incurs substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulatory requirements, its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy its debt service obligations and to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict its use of its properties and may require it to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to its properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of its existing properties. CIM Urban may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow its business and, even if consummated, CIM Urban may fail to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties. CIM Urban plans to acquire additional properties as opportunities arise. CIM Urban’s ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them is subject to the following significant risks: — CIM Urban may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors with better access to less expensive capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and investment funds; — CIM Urban may acquire properties that are not accretive to its results upon acquisition, and CIM Urban may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet its expectations; — Competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase purchase prices; — CIM Urban may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; — CIM Urban may need to spend more than anticipated amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; — CIM urban may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that CIM Urban does not consummate; — CIM Urban may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions into its existing operations; — CIM Urban may suffer higher than expected vacancy rates and/or lower than expected rental rates; and — CIM Urban may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities against the former owners of the properties. If CIM Urban cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet its goals or expectations, its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy its debt service obligations and to pay dividends could be adversely affected. CIM Urban may be unable to successfully expand its operations into new markets. Each of the risks applicable to CIM Urban’s ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in the markets in which its properties are located are also applicable to its ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, CIM Urban may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of certain new markets that it may enter, which could adversely affect its ability to expand into those markets. CIM Urban may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on its investments in new markets. If CIM Urban is unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy its debt service obligations and pay dividends. CIM Urban may expand into new real estate-related activities and investors will not have any approval rights regarding expansion strategies or specific future investments. CIM Urban may expand its operations into new real estate-related activities, including, without limitation, (1) originating and/or investing in a variety of loan products, including, but not limited to, mezzanine loans, commercial real estate loans and other types of loans and/or (2) real estate development activities to create substantially stabilized properties. Investors will not have any approval rights with respect to expansion strategies or future investments. Investments will therefore be relying on the Advisor with respect to future investments to be made by CIM Urban. 20 Table of Contents CIM Urban may make investments outside of the United States, which would subject it to additional risks that may affect its operations favorably or unfavorably. CIM Urban may invest some of its capital outside of the United States. CIM Urban’s investments in foreign countries will be affected favorably or unfavorably by changes in exchange rates due to political and economic factors, including inflation. Because non-U.S. companies are subject to uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and requirements comparable with those applicable to U.S. companies, there may be different types of, and lower quality, information available about non-U.S. companies and their assets. This may affect CIM Urban’s ability to underwrite and evaluate proposed investments in foreign countries or to obtain appropriate financial reports relating to such investments. In addition, with respect to certain countries, there may be an increased potential for corrupt business practices, or the possibility of expropriation or confiscatory taxation, political or social inability, or diplomatic developments that could affect CIM Urban’s investments in those countries. Moreover, individual economies will differ favorably or unfavorable from the U.S. economy in such respects as growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations and capital reinvestment. If CIM Urban were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for CIM Urban to continue its business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on CIM’s Urban’s business. CIM Urban is not an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and intends to conduct its operations so that it will not be deemed an investment company. However, if it were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on the nature of investments and ability to transact business with affiliates, could make it impractical for CIM Urban to continue its business as contemplated. In addition, the Investment Company Act imposes certain requirements on companies deemed to be within its regulatory scope, including registration as an investment company, adoption of a specific form of corporate structure and compliance with certain burdensome reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event of the characterization of CIM Urban as an investment company, the failure by CIM Urban to satisfy such regulatory requirements, whether on a timely basis or at all, would, under certain circumstances, also have a material adverse effect on CIM Urban. Investment Risks – Lending Activities Changes in economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Turmoil in the financial markets adversely affects economic activity. This turmoil (including the effect of any perceived or actual economic recession) subjects our borrowers to financial stress which could impair their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. During periods of economic stress, delinquencies and losses may increase and losses may be substantial. Commercial mortgage loans expose us to a high degree of risk associated with investing in real estate. The performance and value of our loans depends upon many factors beyond our control. Commercial real estate has experienced cyclical performance and significant fluctuations in the past that impacts the value of our real estate collateralized loans. The ultimate performance and value of our loans are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of the properties which collateralize our loans, including the property owner’s ability to operate the property with sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements. The performance and value of the properties collateralizing our loans may be adversely affected by: — Changes in national or regional economic conditions; — Changes in real estate market conditions due to changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or property market characteristics; — Continued disruptions in the credit markets including the asset-backed securitization market; — Competition from other properties; — Changes in interest rates and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets; — The ongoing need for capital repairs and improvements; — Increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses (including utilities); — A significant increase in gasoline prices in a short period of time; — Adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; or a decrease in the availability of or an increase in the cost of insurance; — Adverse changes in zoning laws; 21 Table of Contents — The impact of environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and, — Other factors that are beyond our control or the control of the commercial property owners. In the event that any of the properties underlying our loans experience any of the foregoing events or occurrences, the value of, and return on, such loans may be negatively impacted. Moreover, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio may increase which may cause adverse effects on our cash flows and results of operations. Recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have led to business contraction, liquidity issues and other problems for many of the businesses we finance. As a result, payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio increased, and may continue to increase, which has caused, and may continue to cause, adverse effects on our cash flows and results of operations. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses for most of our real estate secured loans due to our borrowers’ equity in their properties, the value of the underlying collateral, the cash flows from operations of the businesses and other factors such as having recourse to the guarantors. However, due to the prolonged economic downturn and the current economic environment, we believe that in many instances, our borrowers’ equity in their properties has eroded and may further erode which may result in increased foreclosure activity and credit losses. Whenever our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loan, losses may be substantial. We may increase loan loss reserves due to general business and economic conditions and increased credit and liquidity risks which may continue to have an adverse effect on our financial performance; however, there can be no assurance that the loan loss reserves we establish will be sufficient. The commercial real estate loans we originate are subject to the risks of default and foreclosure which could result in losses to us. The commercial real estate loans we originate are collateralized by income-producing properties (primarily limited service hospitality properties) and we are subject to risks of default and foreclosure. In the event of a default under a mortgage loan, we bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loan, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. If a borrower defaults on one of our commercial real estate loans and the underlying property collateralizing the loan is insufficient to satisfy the outstanding balance of the loan, we may suffer a loss. In addition to losses related to collateral deficiencies, during the foreclosure process we may incur costs related to the protection of our collateral including unpaid real estate taxes, legal fees, franchise fees, insurance and operating shortfalls to the extent the property is being operated by a court-appointed receiver. Foreclosure and bankruptcy are complex and sometimes lengthy processes that are subject to Federal and state laws and regulations. An action to foreclose on a property is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of a default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. Borrowers have the option of seeking Federal bankruptcy protection which could delay the foreclosure process. In conjunction with the bankruptcy process, the terms of the loan agreements may be modified. Typically, delays in the foreclosure process will have a negative impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition due to direct and indirect costs incurred and possible deterioration of the value of the collateral. Our ability to sell any properties we own as a result of foreclosure will be impacted by changes in economic and other conditions. Our ability to sell these properties and the prices we receive on their sale are affected by many factors, including but not limited to, the number of potential buyers, the condition of the property, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions. If we are required to hold a property for an extended period of time or choose to operate the property, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition due to direct and indirect costs incurred and possible deterioration of the value of the collateral resulting in impairment losses. 22 Table of Contents There are significant risks in lending to small businesses. Our loans receivable consist primarily of loans to small, privately-owned businesses. There is typically no publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we must rely on our own due diligence to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by banks. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely impacted by numerous factors, including a downturn in its industry or other negative local or macro economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. In addition, small businesses typically depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of people for their success. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have an adverse impact on the operations of the small business. Small companies are typically more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions and economic downturns and often need additional capital to maintain the business, expand or compete. These factors may have an impact on the ultimate recovery of our loans receivable from such businesses. Loans to small businesses, therefore, involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. We depend on the accuracy of information provided by potential borrowers and guarantors. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into transactions with potential borrowers and/or their guarantors, we rely on certain information furnished to us by or on behalf of potential borrowers and/or guarantors. We also rely on representations of potential borrowers and/or guarantors as to the accuracy of that information. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements or other information that is inaccurate or materially misleading. Longer term loans and our real estate owned (“REO”) are typically illiquid and their value may decrease. Our commercial real estate loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure are typically illiquid investments. Therefore, we will be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. As a result, the fair market value of these investments may decrease in the future and losses may result. There is typically no public market or established trading market for the loans we originate. Accordingly, the market value for our loans will typically be less than the estimated fair value of our loans. The illiquid nature of our loans may adversely affect our ability to dispose of such loans at times when it may be advantageous or necessary for us to liquidate such investments. Changes in interest rates and competition could negatively affect lending operations, which could result in reduced earnings. Our interest income will be reduced during low interest rate environments. During any period that LIBOR or the prime rate decreases, interest income on our loans will decline. Changes in interest rates do not have an immediate impact on the interest income of our fixed-rate loans. Our interest rate risk on our fixed-rate loans is primarily due to loan prepayments and maturities. In general, due to the highly competitive nature of our business, we must execute efficient and effective promotional and marketing programs. The effectiveness of our marketing and promotion practices is important to our ability to locate potential borrowers and retain existing borrowers. If our marketing programs are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have concentrations of investments which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from loans collateralized by hospitality properties. At December 31, 2013, our loans were 95% concentrated in the hospitality industry. Any factors that negatively impact the hospitality industry, including recessions, severe weather events (such as hurricanes, blizzards, floods, etc.), depressed commercial real estate markets, travel restrictions, bankruptcies or other political or geopolitical events, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2013, 13% of our loans receivable were collateralized by properties in Texas. No other state had a concentration of 10% or greater of our loans receivable at December 31, 2013. A decline in economic conditions in any state in which we have a concentration of investments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Establishing loan loss reserves entails significant judgment and may negatively impact our results of operations. We have a quarterly review process to identify and evaluate potential exposure to loan losses. The determination of whether significant doubt exists and whether a loan loss reserve is necessary requires judgment and consideration of the facts and circumstances existing at the evaluation date. Loans that require specific identification review are identified based on one or more negative characteristics including, but not limited to, non-payment or lack of timely payment of principal and/or interest, non-payment or lack of timely payment of property taxes for an extended period of time, deterioration of the physical property (our collateral), insurance defaults and/or franchise defaults. In determining estimated fair value, management utilizes the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate and/or an estimation of underlying collateral values using appraisals, broker price opinions, tax assessed value and/or revenue analysis. Additionally, further changes to the facts and circumstances of the individual borrowers, the limited service hospitality industry and the economy may require the establishment of additional loan loss reserves and the effect to our results of operations may be material. If our judgments underlying the establishment of our loan loss reserves are not correct, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Whenever our borrowers experience significant operating difficulties and we are forced to liquidate the collateral underlying the loans, losses may be relatively substantial. Government Program and Regulatory Risks – Lending Activities We have specific risks associated with originating loans under the SBA 7(a) Program. We sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans into the secondary market. These sales have resulted in collecting cash premiums, creating a stream of future servicing spread or both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, that a secondary market will exist or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. We sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans and retain the credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans. We share pro-rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, our pursuit of remedies against a borrower is subject to SBA rules and in some instances SBA approval. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us. With respect to the guaranteed portion of SBA loans that have been sold, the SBA will first honor its guarantee and then seek compensation from us in the event that a loss is deemed to be attributable to technical deficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a loss due to significant deficiencies with our underwriting or servicing of SBA loans. In certain instances, including liquidation or charge-off of an SBA guaranteed loan, we may have a receivable for the SBA’s guaranteed portion of legal fees, operating expenses, property taxes paid etc. related to the loan or the collateral (upon foreclosure). While we believe expenses incurred were justified and necessary for the care and preservation of the collateral and within the established rules of the SBA, there can be no assurance that the SBA will reimburse us. In addition, reimbursement from the SBA is a time consuming and lengthy process and the SBA may seek compensation from us related to reimbursement of expenses which it does not believe were necessary for the care and preservation of the loan or its collateral. Although the SBA has never declined to reimburse us for its portion of material expenses, no assurance can be given that the SBA would not do so in the future. Curtailment of our ability to utilize the SBA 7(a) Program could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon the Federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. There can be no assurance that the program will be maintained or that loans will continue to be guaranteed at current levels. In addition, there can be no assurance that First Western will be able to maintain its status as a Preferred Lender or that we can maintain our SBA 7(a) license. If we cannot continue originating and selling government guaranteed loans at current levels, we could experience a decrease in future servicing spreads and earned premiums. From time-to-time the SBA has reached its internal budgeted limits and ceased to guarantee loans for a stated period of time. In addition, the SBA may change its rules regarding loans or Congress may adopt legislation or fail to approve a budget that would have the effect of 24 Table of Contents discontinuing, reducing availability of funds for, or changing loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small businesses that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans. First Western has been granted national PLP status and originates, sells and services small business loans and is authorized to place SBA guarantees on loans without seeking prior SBA review and approval. Being a national lender, PLP status allows First Western to expedite loans since First Western is not required to present applications to the SBA for concurrent review and approval. The loss of PLP status could adversely impact our marketing efforts and ultimately loan origination volume which could negatively impact our results of operations. A government shutdown could adversely affect our SBA 7(a) loan originations and results of operations. We are dependent upon the Federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. Our lending business could be materially and adversely affected by circumstances or events limited the availability of funds for this program. A government shutdown occurred in October 2013 which affected our ability to originate SBA 7(a) loans as Congress failed to approve a budget which in turn eliminated availability of funds for this program. We could again experience a government shutdown which would affect our ability to originate government guaranteed loans and to sell the government guaranteed portions of those loans in the secondary market. Any government shutdown could adversely affect our SBA 7(a) loan originations and results of operations. Any downgrade in the U.S.’s credit rating could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns caused a credit rating agency downgrade to the U.S.’s credit rating for the first time in history. In addition, there potentially may be future downgrades. Any default by the U.S. on its obligations, the perceived risk of such a default or any downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. These economic and market conditions could negatively impact the value of the government guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) Program loans. Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks The following risk factors apply to the combined liquidity and capital resources of PMC Commercial and CIM Urban upon completion of the merger anticipated to occur no later than March 31, 2014. PMC Commercial may be unable to secure funds for its future long-term liquidity needs, which could adversely impact PMC Commercial’s business and results of operations. PMC Commercial’s long-term liquidity needs will consist primarily of funds necessary to pay for development or repositioning of properties, non-recurring capital expenditures, loan originations and refinancing of indebtedness. PMC Commercial may not have sufficient funds on hand or may not be able to obtain additional financing to cover all of these long-term cash requirements; although, PMC Commercial does not currently have any significant property developments or repositioning projects planned. The nature of PMC Commercial’s business, and the requirements imposed by REIT rules that it distribute a substantial majority of its REIT taxable income on an annual basis in the form of dividends, may cause PMC Commercial to have substantial liquidity needs over the long-term. PMC Commercial will seek to satisfy its long-term liquidity needs through cash flows from operations, long-term secured indebtedness and property dispositions. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If PMC Commercial cannot obtain additional funding for its long-term liquidity needs, its investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both, which may cause PMC Commercial to reduce its dividend or sell assets at a time when it would not otherwise do so. CIM Urban has incurred indebtedness and expects to incur significant additional indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which may affect its ability to pay distributions to PMC Commercial, may expose it to interest rate fluctuation risk and may expose it to the risk of default under debt obligations. CIM Urban expects to incur significant additional indebtedness, including through the use and potential expansion of its existing revolving credit lines or the use of a new credit line, and there are no restrictions on the amount of indebtedness that CIM Urban may incur. The degree of leverage could make CIM Urban more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 25 Table of Contents Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave CIM Urban’s property-owning entities with insufficient cash resources to operate its properties and/or pay distributions. The incurrence of substantial outstanding indebtedness by CIM Urban, and the limitations imposed by the debt agreements of CIM Urban, could have significant other adverse consequences, including the following: — The cash flow of CIM Urban may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; — CIM Urban may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could adversely affect CIM Urban’s liquidity for acquisitions or operations; — CIM Urban may be unable to refinance its indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of CIM Urban’s original indebtedness, — CIM Urban may be forced to dispose of one or more of its properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; — CIM Urban will be exposed to interest and future interest rate volatility with respect to indebtedness that is variable rate; and — Any property-owning entity may default on its obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on CIM Urban’s properties and execute on any collateral that secures their loans. If any one of these events were to occur, CIM Urban’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to PMC Commercial could be adversely affected. PMC Commercial’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders may be adversely impacted by CIM Urban’s inability to pay distributions to PMC Commercial. In addition, any foreclosure on CIM Urban’s properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect CIM Urban’s ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. CIM Urban may be unable to refinance its indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of CIM Urban’s original indebtedness. Upon maturity of indebtedness obtained by CIM Urban, there is no assurance that replacement financing can be obtained or, if it is obtained, that interest rates and other terms would be as favorable as for the original indebtedness. Inability to refinance indebtedness on favorable terms may compel CIM Urban to attempt to dispose of the property or other properties on terms less favorable than might be obtained at a later date. In addition, if the indebtedness matured before refinancing could be procured, the lender could foreclose on the collateral and CIM Urban might suffer losses as a result of that foreclosure. Further, lenders may require insurance against terrorist acts, particularly for large properties in urban areas, and the unavailability of such insurance may make it difficult to finance or refinance investments. Third parties seeking to satisfy a liability of CIM Urban may have recourse against all of CIM Urban’s assets generally. CIM Urban’s assets, including any investments held by CIM Urban and any funds held by CIM Urban, may be available to satisfy all liabilities and other obligations of CIM Urban. If CIM Urban becomes subject to a liability, parties seeking to have the liability satisfied may have recourse to CIM Urban’s assets generally and not be limited to any particular asset, such as the asset representing the investment giving rise to the liability. In particular, CIM Urban has a recourse, unsecured line of credit. In the event CIM Urban is unable to pay its obligations as they become due under the line of credit, the lender may pursue any or all of CIM Urban’s assets. The market demand for Secondary Market Loan Sales may decline or be temporarily suspended. The market for the sale of the government guaranteed portion of SBA 7(a) Program loans may diminish and/or the premiums, if any, achieved on selling loans into that market may be reduced. To the extent the capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption, there may be a decrease in liquidity to acquire the government guaranteed portion of loans which are typically sold into the secondary market. This market dislocation could be a result of decreased investor demand for asset-backed securities in general or loans to a particular industry and/or increased investor yield requirements. 26 Table of Contents REIT Related Risks The following risk factors apply to the REIT qualification of PMC Commercial and CIM Urban upon completion of the merger anticipated to occur no later than March 31, 2014. PMC Commercial may incur adverse tax consequences if PMC Commercial or any REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban has failed or fails to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. CIM Urban holds investments through REIT subsidiaries. Each of PMC Commercial and each REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban has operated in a manner that it believes has allowed it to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code, and PMC Commercial and each such REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban intends to continue operating in such a manner. Neither of PMC Commercial nor any such REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban has requested or plans to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the control of PMC Commercial or any such REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban may affect its ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, each of PMC Commercial and each such REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of its shares, requirements regarding the composition of its assets and a requirement that at least 95% of its gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, such as “rents from real property.” Also, a REIT must make distributions to shareholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding any net capital gains. If any REIT subsidiary of CIM Urban has failed or fails to qualify as a REIT for any reason, PMC Commercial would succeed to or incur significant tax liabilities and its ownership of CIM Urban could result in PMC Commercial failing to qualify as a REIT. If PMC Commercial loses its REIT status, it will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce its cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to its shareholders, for each of the years involved because: — it would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; — it also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and — unless it is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which it was disqualified. In addition, if PMC Commercial fails to qualify as a REIT, it will not be required to make distributions to shareholders, and accordingly, distributions from CIM Urban could be similarly reduced. As a result of all these factors, PMC Commercial’s failure to qualify as a REIT could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of its shares. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, PMC Commercial must distribute with respect to each taxable year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) to its shareholders. A REIT must also meet certain requirements with respect to the nature of its income and assets, and the ownership of its shares. For any taxable year that PMC Commercial fails to qualify as a REIT, it will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its shareholders in computing taxable income and thus would become subject to U.S. federal income tax as if it were a regular taxable corporation. In such an event, PMC Commercial could be subject to potentially significant tax liabilities. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, PMC Commercial would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost its qualification. If PMC Commercial failed to qualify as a REIT, the market price of PMC Commercial Common Shares may decline, and PMC Commercial may need to reduce substantially the amount of distributions to its shareholders because of its increased tax liability. The rules regulating REITs impose restrictions on the types of investments a REIT can make and the types of activities in which it can engage directly. PMC Commercial’s activities will be limited by these restrictions. PMC Commercial might, however, also make certain investments or engage in certain activities that a REIT could not engage in directly (e.g., the sale of condominiums) through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Any income earned through a taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. 27 Table of Contents Ownership limitations associated with our REIT status may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities. In order for PMC Commercial to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding common shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve PMC Commercial’s REIT status, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding common shares or preferred shares without specific waiver from our Board. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. After completion of the merger, the power of the Board of Trust Managers to revoke PMC Commercial’s REIT election without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to its shareholders. If the reincorporation occurs, PMC Commercial’s organizational documents will permit its Board of Trust Managers to revoke or otherwise terminate its REIT election, without the approval of its shareholders, if the Board of Trust Managers determines that it is not in PMC Commercial’s best interest to qualify as a REIT. In such a case, PMC Commercial would become subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its net taxable income and PMC Commercial would no longer be required to distribute most of its net taxable income to its shareholders, which have adverse consequences on the total return to its shareholders. Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. Subject to certain restrictions, a REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary generally will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to normal corporate income taxes. We continuously monitor the value of our investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). The aggregate value of our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities is less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including our taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities) as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There are no distribution requirements applicable to the taxable REIT subsidiaries and after-tax earnings may be retained. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 