Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE MERGER IF OUR PROPOSED MERGER WITH JDA SOFTWARE GROUP, INC. IS NOT CONSUMMATED, OUR STOCK PRICE, BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS COULD BE HARMED. On April 24, 2006, we entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger with JDA and the Merger Sub. Under the Merger Agreement, the Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing after the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of JDA. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Company Common Stock will be converted into the right to receive $2.50 in cash. The obligations of the Company and JDA to effect the Merger are subject to a number of conditions, including approval of the Merger by our stockholders, and the Merger may not occur. If the Merger is not consummated for any reason, we will be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: · we may not realize any of the potential benefits of the Merger, including any potential synergies that could result from combining the resources of our Company and JDA; 13 · we may be required to pay JDA a termination fee of up to $9.75 million under certain circumstances; · the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed; and · we must pay our accrued costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisory fees, even if the merger is not completed. In addition, our customers may, in response to the announcement of the merger, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by our customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether the Merger is ultimately completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with JDA until JDA’s strategies with regard to us are announced or executed. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing, technical, manufacturing, administrative, sales and other personnel. In addition, the attention of our management and our employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations. PROVISIONS OF THE MERGER AGREEMENT MAY DETER ALTERNATIVE BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. Restrictions in the Merger Agreement on solicitation generally prohibit us from soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a merger or business combination with any other party, including a proposal or offer that might be more advantageous to our stockholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the proposed Merger. If the Merger is not completed, we may not be able to conclude another merger, sale or combination on as favorable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may be required, in certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $9.75 million to JDA. THE RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS IN THE MERGER AGREEMENT IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT RESTRICTIONS ON OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS UNTIL THE COMPLETION OF THE MERGER. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, until the completion of the Merger, we are required to operate our business in the ordinary course consistent with our past practice and cannot do any of the following, among other things, without the prior written consent of JDA: · issue or sell any shares of our capital stock or any options, warrants or other rights to acquire any shares of our capital stock, other than the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of those options or warrants outstanding as of April 24, 2006; or · sell, license or otherwise dispose of any of our properties or assets or incur any capital expenditures above certain threshold amounts, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with our past practice. 14 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. In November 2000, we completed an offering of $250.0 million of 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes (the “Notes”) that are due November 2007. During fiscal 2004, the balance of the Notes was reduced to $175.5 million as a result of $74.5 million of Notes being exchanged for shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will conduct a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding Notes. Closing of that tender offer will be conditioned on the closing of the Merger. While the Notes remain outstanding, our indebtedness could have important consequences for investors. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing; · require the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of capital to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and · influence our customers and potential customers in doing business with the Company. We may incur additional debt in the future. While the terms of our credit facility impose certain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, we are permitted to incur additional debt subject to compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the credit facility. The terms of the Notes set forth no limits on our ability to incur additional debt. If a significant amount of new debt is added to our current levels, the related risks described above could intensify. WE MAY HAVE INSUFFICIENT CASH FLOW TO MEET OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CUSTOMERS. We will be required to generate sufficient cash to pay all amounts due on the Notes and to conduct our business operations. The Notes require interest payments of $8.8 million annually with $175.5 million of principal due in November 2007. As of February 28, 2006, the remaining principal and interest payments due under the Notes were $193.8 million. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $140.7 million as of February 28, 2006. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities remain constant from our February 28, 2006 levels, and we do not consummate the Merger and related tender offer, we will have to generate a minimum of $53.1 million of net cash flow through any combination of normal operations of our Company, raising of debt and equity capital or asset sales by November 2007 to meet our remaining principal and interest payments under the Notes. We have incurred net losses in the past, and we may not be able to cover our anticipated debt service obligations. This may materially hinder our ability to make principal and interest payments on the Notes. Concerns about our ability to meet our debt service obligations could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Our ability to meet our future debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 15 IF THE MERGER IS NOT CONSUMMATED, WE MAY CHOOSE TO EXCHANGE THE NOTES FOR SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE OPEN MARKET OR PURCHASE A PORTION OF THE NOTES FOR CASH, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY DILUTE EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS OR COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. During fiscal 2004, we issued 9,725,750 shares of our common stock in exchange for the Notes in privately negotiated transactions under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended (the “Securities Act”). If the Merger is not consummated, we may choose to exchange the Notes for shares of our common stock in the open market or purchase a portion of the Notes for cash, which could materially dilute existing stockholders or could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. If we choose to enter into privately negotiated transactions to exchange some of our outstanding Notes for shares of our common stock, it could materially dilute the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders and result in non-cash charges to earnings. In addition, to the extent we are able to do so on terms favorable to us, we may choose to purchase a portion of the Notes outstanding from time to time in the open market with cash or, alternatively, refinance the Notes. While the terms of our credit facility impose certain limits on our ability to repurchase our debt securities with cash, we are permitted to do so subject to compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the credit facility. If purchases of the Notes in the open market were funded from available cash and cash equivalents, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. WE MAY VIOLATE FINANCIAL COVENANTS UNDER OUR CREDIT FACILITY, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We have an unsecured credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”) with borrowing capacity of $15.0 million. As of February 28, 2006, approximately $10.0 million of letters of credit were outstanding with SVB. The terms of the credit facility require us to comply with the following financial covenants: (i) minimum tangible net worth (defined as stockholders’ equity plus convertible debt less goodwill, capitalized software costs and other intangible assets) must be at least $90.0 million plus 50% of consolidated net income generated cumulatively commencing with the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and (ii) our ratio of (a) unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and long-term investments deposited with SVB and its affiliates plus net accounts receivable to (b) current liabilities plus long-term indebtedness to SVB and outstanding letters of credit minus deferred revenue, must be at least 2.0 to 1.0. The credit facility requires us to maintain $50.0 million in funds with SVB Asset Management and its affiliates. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will cooperate with JDA to replace, at the closing of the Merger, the letters of credit that are outstanding with SVB with newly issued letters of credit. If the Merger is not consummated, the letters of credit with SVB will remain outstanding and we will remain obligated to comply with the financial covenants contained in those letters of credit. If our future financial performance results in a violation of these financial covenants under our credit facility, or with our previous equipment financing credit line, we could be required to provide cash collateral for letters of credit or repay outstanding borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS ADVERSE ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS CONTRIBUTED TO THE DETERIORATION OF DEMAND IN THE MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND HAVE ADVERSELY AFFECTED AND COULD FURTHER ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our revenue and operating results depend on the overall demand for our enterprise application software and related services. Regional and global adverse changes in the economy and political upheaval and unrest contributed to a deterioration of the markets for our products and services in recent years. 16 Recent improvements in economic conditions have not yet resulted in improvements in the markets for supply chain management software. These factors resulted in reductions, delays and postponements of customer purchases, which materially and adversely affected our financial performance during the last four fiscal years. Demand for our solutions designed to optimize pricing and revenue management, a component of our demand management solutions, was more severely affected than our other solutions for which there are more mature markets. If these adverse conditions continue or worsen, we would likely experience further reductions, delays, and postponements of customer purchases further adversely affecting our operating performance and financial condition. National and global responses to future hostilities and terrorist attacks may materially and adversely affect demand for our software and services because of the economic and political effects on our markets and by interrupting the ability of our customers to do business in the ordinary course, as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, changes or disruptions in movement and sourcing of materials, goods and components or possible interruptions in the flows of information or monies. WE BELIEVE OUR RECENT PERFORMANCE WAS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CAUTIOUS CAPITAL SPENDING, CONCERNS ABOUT OUR FINANCIAL VIABILITY AND A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT. IF WE CANNOT OVERCOME THESE DIFFICULTIES OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We incurred significant losses during the past four fiscal years. Although we have been able to reduce operating costs, we believe our recent financial performance was adversely affected by cautious capital spending, concerns about our financial viability and a highly competitive environment. Over the past two fiscal years, we have made substantial changes in our Company, including reorganizing and downsizing our executive management team and our sales organization, narrowing our market focus, narrowing our product focus, our ongoing move of product development to India, increasing our focus on transportation and pricing optimization markets and increasing our focus on the Asia-Pacific region. Although we believe that these changes have enabled us to improve our financial performance and cash flows from operations in our most recent quarters, we have continued to report significant losses in our annual financial statements and experience declines in both software license revenue and total revenue. If we do not successfully align our cost structure with our revenue without hindering our ability to grow revenue, or if we do not successfully overcome the factors that have hindered our performance, our operating performance and financial condition could be harmed, and we could continue to incur significant losses. IF OUR STOCK PRICE DECREASES TO LEVELS SUCH THAT THE IMPLIED FAIR VALUE OF OUR COMPANY IS SIGNIFICANTLY LESS THAN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR A SUSTAINED PERIOD OF TIME, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO RECORD ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT NON-CASH CHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT. On March 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), which changed the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment-only method. As required by SFAS 142, we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis coinciding with our fiscal year-end, or on an interim basis if circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our implied fair value below our carrying value. We have recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the past as a result of adverse changes in our stock price. We performed our annual fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 goodwill impairment review on February 28, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and interim testing at August 31, 2004, May 31, 2005 and November 30, 2005, respectively, due to volatility in our stock price and the departure of our Chief Financial Officer and determined our implied fair value (which includes factors such as, but not limited to, our market capitalization, a control premium and our 17 recent stock price volatility) exceeded our carrying value. Accordingly, no goodwill impairment charge was recorded. We will continue to test for impairment on an annual basis, coinciding with our fiscal year-end, or on an interim basis if circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying value. If our stock price is significantly lower than recent levels such that the implied fair value of our Company is significantly less than stockholders’ equity for a sustained period of time, among other factors, we may be required to record additional impairment losses related to goodwill. OUR FUTURE RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY VARIOUS SIGNIFICANT NON-CASH CHARGES, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY IN THE FUTURE. We have recorded significant non-cash charges in the past and will incur significant non-cash charges in the future related to the amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets from past acquisitions. We may also incur non-cash charges in future periods related to impairments of long-lived assets and future exchanges of Notes for shares of our common stock, if any. To achieve profitability, we must grow our revenue sufficiently to cover these charges. Our failure to achieve profitability could cause our stock price to decline. IF OUR EXIT AND DISPOSAL PLANS AND OUR COST CONTAINMENT AND COST REDUCTION MEASURES FAIL TO ACHIEVE THE DESIRED RESULTS OR RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES, WE MAY SUFFER MATERIAL HARM TO OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Since fiscal 2002, we have implemented a number of exit and disposal plans and cost containment and cost reduction measures and we continue to implement cost containment and cost reduction measures to align our cost structure with our revenue. These actions have included, among other things, reductions in workforce and consolidations of our operational facilities. During the past two fiscal years, we abandoned additional idle space in our Rockville, Maryland; Tokyo, Japan; San Carlos and Calabasas, California; and Bracknell, United Kingdom facilities and closed four offices in Europe and one in the Philippines. Our exit and disposal activities are set forth in greater detail in Note 14 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As part of the consolidation of our facilities, we negotiate lease termination agreements and lease modifications, or both and subleases for certain of our facilities. We cannot predict when or if we will be successful in negotiating lease termination agreements or subleases on terms acceptable to us. Should we be unsuccessful in such negotiations or if the negotiated terms are less favorable than currently anticipated, we may be required to materially increase our exit and disposal related expenses in future periods. Further, if we consolidate additional facilities in the future, we may incur additional exit and disposal related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce again in the future or that related transition issues associated with such a reduction will not occur again. If we fail to achieve the desired results of our exit and disposal plans and our cost containment and cost reduction measures, we may suffer material harm to our operating performance and financial condition. 18 IF WE FAIL TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN A QUALIFIED WORKFORCE, OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. FURTHER, OUR COST CONTAINMENT AND COST REDUCTION INITIATIVES MAY HINDER OR IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IMPROVEMENTS IN MARKET CONDITIONS. We believe that our success depends on our ability to motivate, hire and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, marketing and services personnel. Competition for skilled personnel can be intense, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining the personnel we need to improve our financial performance and grow. As part of our cost containment and cost reduction initiatives, we have recently reduced our workforce and experienced voluntary attrition. However, headcount increased to 761 at February 28, 2006 compared to 695 employees at February 28, 2005, primarily as a result of continued staffing at our product development center in Hyderabad, India. Continuity of personnel is a very important factor in our success. We consider stock options, restricted stock and retention programs to be critically important in attracting and retaining employees. In addition, in light of the Merger, we have implemented cash bonuses in an effort to retain certain of our employees. The decline in our stock trading price over the past year has decreased the value of stock options and restricted stock granted previously to our employees under our stock option plans. In addition, under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are prohibited from issuing equity grants and cash bonuses to current and prospective employees as incentives. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company or, if the Merger is consummated, with JDA. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing, technical, manufacturing, administrative, sales and other personnel. Despite our efforts to retain our employees, our existing employees may seek employment elsewhere. Failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. Further, our cost containment and cost reduction initiatives may yield further unintended consequences, such as reduced employee morale, decreased productivity, difficulty attracting qualified personnel due to a perceived risk of future workforce reductions, and our inability to take advantage of improvements in market conditions. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT IN THE LAST FEW YEARS. THE SUCCESS AND GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF WE EXPERIENCE TOO MANY CHANGES IN KEY PERSONNEL IN TOO SHORT A PERIOD OF TIME. We have undergone significant changes in our senior management during the past few years. In July 2004, Gregory J. Owens resigned as our Chief Executive Officer and was replaced by Joseph L. Cowan. In August of 2004, our President, Jeremy P. Coote resigned and the position of President was eliminated. In September 2004, Jeffrey L. Kissling was hired as our Chief Technology Officer, and two other senior management personnel were promoted to new positions. In April 2005, Mr. Owens resigned as Chairman of the Board. In addition, two other senior management personnel left the Company during our third quarter of fiscal 2005 and one, whose position was eliminated, left the Company at the end of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Most recently, in October 2005, Raghavan Rajaji, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, resigned to accept a position with another company. During fiscal year 2005, we reorganized our sales and marketing organization, which resulted in further management changes within the organizational structure. Our success depends significantly on the continued service of our executive officers and their ability to work together effectively as a management team. We do not have fixed-term employment agreements with any executive officers, other than with Joseph L. Cowan, who has a two-year employment agreement with our Company that commenced in July 2004, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on our executive officers. The loss of services of any of our senior management for any reason or their inability to 19 manage our Company effectively could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. WE HAVE RESTRUCTURED, AND MAY IN THE FUTURE RESTRUCTURE, OUR SALES FORCE, WHICH CAN BE DISRUPTIVE. WE HAVE ALSO REDUCED OUR SALES FORCE AND CONSOLIDATED OUR SALES OFFICES AS PART OF OUR COST CONTAINMENT AND COST REDUCTION INITIATIVES. OUR FAILURE TO FIELD AN EFFECTIVE SALES ORGANIZATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We continue to rely heavily on our direct sales force. In recent years, we reorganized our sales force in response to management changes and other internal considerations, most recently in August 2005. Since fiscal 2003, we have reduced our sales force as a result of the deterioration in our markets and restructuring of our operations. Decreased software license revenue has resulted in reduced compensation earned overall by members of our sales force; it also has resulted, and may continue to result, in voluntary attrition of our sales force over time. In order to stabilize and then grow our revenue, we will have to field an effective sales force. Changes in the structure of the sales force and sales force management have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to field a more productive sales force or successfully attract and retain qualified sales people at levels sufficient to support growth. We cannot assure you that we will not continue to restructure our sales force or that the transition issues associated with restructuring the sales force will not recur. Such restructuring or associated transition issues can be disruptive and adversely impact our operating performance and financial condition. SALES CYCLES FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CAN BE LONG AND UNPREDICTABLE. VARIATIONS IN THE TIME IT TAKES US TO LICENSE OUR SOFTWARE MAY CAUSE FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. Each client’s decision to license and implement our products and services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources and is subject to the client’s budget cycles. The time it takes to license our software to prospective clients varies substantially, but historically has ranged between three and twelve months. Prior sales and implementation cycles should not be relied upon as any indication of future cycles. As a result of current economic conditions, recent changes in our organization and sales force and increased competition, our sales cycle has recently become longer than historical sales cycles. Variations in the length of our sales cycles will cause our revenue to fluctuate widely from period to period. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Because a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term and we typically recognize a substantial portion of our software license revenue in the last month of a quarter, any delay in the licensing of our products could cause significant variations in our revenue from quarter to quarter. These delays have occurred on a number of occasions in the past and have materially and adversely affected our financial performance. The length of our sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · the complexities of client challenges our solutions address; · the breadth of the solution required by the client, including the technical, organizational and geographic scope of the license; · the size, timing and complexity of contractual terms of licenses and sales of our products and services; · wide variations in contractual terms, which may defer recognition of revenue; 20 · customer financial constraints and credit-worthiness; · the evaluation and approval processes employed by the clients and prospects, which has become more complex and lengthy and now includes an assessment of our financial viability; · economic, political and market conditions; and · any other delays arising from factors beyond our control. As a result of these and other factors, revenue for any quarter is subject to significant variation. You should not rely on period to period comparisons as indications of future performance. Our future quarterly operating results from time to time may not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, which would likely have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. AN INCREASE IN SALES OF SOFTWARE PRODUCTS THAT REQUIRE CUSTOMIZATION WOULD RESULT IN REVENUE BEING RECOGNIZED OVER THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT FOR THOSE PRODUCTS AND COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Historically, we have been able to recognize software license revenue upon delivery of our solutions and contract execution. Recently, more of our clients and prospects have been asking for unique capabilities in addition to our core capabilities to give them a competitive edge in the market place. These instances could cause us to recognize more of our software license revenue on a contract accounting basis over the course of the delivery of the solution rather than upon delivery and contract execution. The period between initial contact and the completion of the implementation of our products can be lengthy and is subject to a number of factors (over many of which we have little or no control) that may cause significant delays. These factors include the size and complexity of the overall project. As a result, a shift toward a higher proportion of software license contracts requiring contract accounting could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN OUR MARGINS AND SERVICE RATES FOR IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from implementation services. If we fail to scope our implementation projects correctly, our service margins may suffer. Implementation services are predominately billed on an hourly or daily basis (time and materials) and sometimes under fixed price contracts. Implementation services billed on an hourly or daily basis are generally recognized as work is performed. If we are not able to maintain the current service rates for our time and materials implementation services, without corresponding cost reductions, or if the percentage of fixed price contracts increases and we underestimate the costs of our fixed price contracts, our operating performance may suffer. The rates we charge for our implementation services depend on a number of factors, including the following: · perceptions of our ability to add value through our implementation services; · complexity of services performed; · competition; · pricing policies of our competitors and systems integrators; · the use of globally sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities within our industry; and · economic, political and market conditions. 21 CHANGES IN THE SIZE OR NUMBER OF OUR SOFTWARE TRANSACTIONS MAY CAUSE MATERIAL FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. The size and number of our software license transactions fluctuate. Fluctuations in the size and number of our software transactions have occurred, and may in the future occur, as a result of changes in demand for our software and services. Losses of, or delays in concluding, larger software transactions (which typically are more complex, take longer to negotiate and are subject to more delays) have had, and could continue to have, a proportionately greater effect on our revenue and financial performance for a particular period. We have experienced declines in the number of software transactions of $1.0 million or greater since fiscal 2002. Specifically, we recognized 38 such software transactions in fiscal 2002, 19 such software transactions in fiscal 2003, 18 such software transactions in fiscal 2004, 7 such software transactions in fiscal 2005, and 5 such software transactions in fiscal 2006. During the three months ended May 31, 2005, one transaction accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue on a quarterly basis. As a result of these changes in the size and number of our software transactions, our quarterly revenue and financial performance have fluctuated significantly and may fluctuate significantly in the future. OUR ANNUAL SOFTWARE LICENSE REVENUE HAS DECLINED SINCE FISCAL 2003. LOWER SOFTWARE LICENSE REVENUE HAS RESULTED AND MAY CONTINUE TO RESULT IN REDUCED SERVICES AND SUPPORT REVENUE. Our ability to maintain or increase services and support revenue depends on our ability to maintain or increase the amount of software we license to customers. Since fiscal 2003, we experienced declines in services revenue primarily as a result of declining software license revenue in prior periods. Additional decreases of software license revenue or slowdowns in licensing may have a material adverse effect on our services and support revenue in future periods. FURTHER DECLINES IN SOFTWARE LICENSE REVENUE, A REDUCTION IN THE RENEWAL RATE OF ANNUAL SUPPORT CONTRACTS, OR BOTH, COULD RESULT IN A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. In multiple quarters during fiscal years 2003 through 2006, we experienced sequential quarterly declines in support revenue resulting from both the decline in software license revenue and clients not renewing or partially renewing existing support contracts. Our support revenue includes post-contract support and the rights to unspecified software upgrades and enhancements. Support contracts are generally renewable annually at the option of our customers. Although we have historically experienced high rates of renewed annual support contracts from our customers, if our software license revenue does not grow and if our customers fail to renew or to fully renew their support contracts at historical rates, our support revenue could materially decline. OUR MARKETS ARE VERY COMPETITIVE, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. The markets for our solutions are very competitive. The intensity of competition in our markets has significantly increased in part as a result of the deterioration in our markets. We expect this intensity of competition to increase in the future. In addition, many leading companies in the business of providing enterprise application software have been the subject of mergers and acquisitions during the last several years. This industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. The pace of consolidation has significantly increased over the last year and may continue. If there is significant consolidation among enterprise application software companies, we may be at a competitive disadvantage as an independent best-of-breed enterprise application software vendor. 22 Some competitors are offering software that competes with ours at little or no charge as components of bundled products or on a stand-alone basis. To counter this increased competition, we may need to make further adjustments to our business, including reorganizing or reducing our workforce, altering our pricing and narrowing our market focus and our product focus. Smaller niche software companies have developed, and will likely continue to develop, unique offerings that compete effectively with some of our solutions. Further, our current or prospective clients and partners may become competitors in the future. INCREASED COMPETITION HAS RESULTED IN, AND IN THE FUTURE COULD RESULT IN, PRICE REDUCTIONS, LOWER GROSS MARGINS, LONGER SALES CYCLES AND THE LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. EACH OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. MANY OF OUR CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER RESOURCES THAN WE DO, AND THEREFORE, WE MAY BE AT A DISADVANTAGE IN COMPETING WITH THEM. We directly compete with other enterprise application software vendors including: Aspen Technology, DemandTec, Global Logistics Technologies (acquired by Oracle), i2 Technologies, JDA Software (recently agreed to acquire us), Logility, Manhattan Associates, ProfitLogic (acquired by Oracle), PROS Revenue Management, Rapt, Retek (acquired by Oracle), Sabre, SAP and Teradata (a division of NCR). Certain ERP vendors, in addition to SAP, all of which are substantially larger than us, have acquired or developed demand-driven and supply chain management software companies, products, or functionality or have announced intentions to develop and sell demand and supply chain management solutions. Such vendors include Oracle, SAP (which recently acquired Khimetrics) and SSA Global Technologies. Some of our current and potential competitors, particularly the ERP vendors, have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition and larger installed bases of clients. Five of our competitors, Oracle, PeopleSoft, ProfitLogic, Global Logistics Technologies and Retek, have combined and other of our current and potential competitors may combine and may subsequently utilize enhanced financial and human resources to develop and sell more competitive demand-driven supply chain products. These larger enterprise application software vendors have increasingly raised concerns about our financial viability with our clients and prospects, which has contributed to delays in successfully closing software transactions. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential clients and have extensive knowledge of our industry. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Any of these factors could materially impair our ability to compete and have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. IF THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FAILS TO KEEP PACE WITH OUR INDUSTRY’S RAPIDLY EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN OUR MARKETS AND OUR FUTURE RESULTS MAY BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The markets for our solutions are subject to rapid technological change, changing client needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to keep pace with these changes, our products and services may be rendered less competitive or obsolete. Our product development and testing efforts have required, and are expected to continue to require, substantial investments. We may not possess sufficient resources in the future to continue to make further necessary investments in technology. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new and enhanced software in a timely manner, we may lose existing clients and fail to attract new clients, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. 23 OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO CHANGING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE THAT HAS INCREASED BOTH OUR COSTS AND THE RISK OF NONCOMPLIANCE. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Nasdaq Stock Market, continue to develop and issue regulations and requirements in response to market concerns and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditor’s audit of that assessment have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS ACCURATELY OR PREVENT FRAUD. AS A RESULT, OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE HARMED AND INVESTORS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls that need improvement. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure of our system of internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inadequate internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause our stock price to decline. OUR CONTINUED SHIFT OF OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS TO INDIA POSES SIGNIFICANT RISKS. Just over one year ago, we opened our own product development facility in Hyderabad, India. We continue to move a substantial portion of our product development to India. In addition, we maintain relationships with third parties in India to which we outsource a portion of our product development effort. We are increasing the proportion of our product development work being performed at our facility in India in order to increase product development resources and to take advantage of cost efficiencies associated with India’s lower wage scale. We may not achieve the cost savings and other benefits we anticipate from this program. We may not be able to find sufficient numbers of developers with the necessary skill sets in India to meet our needs. Further, we have a heightened risk exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India as we invest greater resources in our India facility. Economic and political instability, military actions and other unforeseen occurrences in India could impair 24 our ability to develop and introduce new software applications and functionality in a timely manner, which could put our products at a competitive disadvantage whereby we lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. DEFECTS IN OUR SOFTWARE, THE IMPROPER SCOPING OF A PROJECT, OR PROBLEMS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR SOFTWARE COULD LEAD TO CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES BY OUR CLIENTS, LOSS OF REVENUE OR DELAYS IN THE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR SOLUTIONS. Our software is complex and must be implemented to perform within the often sophisticated and complex business processes of our clients, which can make it difficult to scope the initial project or detect errors in our software prior to implementation. We may not discover the existence of these problems until our customers install and use a given product or until the volume of services that a product provides increases. In addition, when our software is installed, the technical environment into which it is installed is frequently complex and typically contains a wide variety of systems and third-party software, with which our software must be integrated. This can make the process of implementation itself difficult and lengthy. As a result of these factors, some customers may have difficulty implementing our products successfully within anticipated timeframes or otherwise achieving the expected benefits. These problems may result in claims for damages suffered by our clients, a loss of, or delays in, the market acceptance of our solutions, client dissatisfaction and lost revenue and collection difficulties during the period required to correct these errors. WE UTILIZE THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE THAT WE INCORPORATE INTO AND INCLUDE WITH OUR PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS. IMPAIRED RELATIONS WITH THESE THIRD PARTIES, DEFECTS IN THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE OR THEIR INABILITY OR FAILURE TO ENHANCE THEIR SOFTWARE OVER TIME COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We incorporate and include third-party software into and with our products and solutions. If our relations with any of these third parties are impaired, and if we are unable to obtain or develop a replacement for the software, our business could be harmed. The operation of our products would be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. WE UTILIZE THIRD PARTIES TO INTEGRATE OUR SOFTWARE WITH OTHER SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND PLATFORMS. IF ANY OF THESE THIRD PARTIES SHOULD CEASE TO PROVIDE INTEGRATION SERVICES TO US, OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We depend on companies such as Business Objects, Inovus, Tibco Software, Vignette, and webMethods to integrate our software with software and platforms developed by third parties. If relations with any of these third parties are impaired, and if we are unable to secure a replacement on a timely basis, our operating performance and financial condition could be harmed. If these companies are unable to develop or maintain software that effectively integrates with our software and is free from defects, our ability to license our products and provide solutions could be impaired and our operating performance and financial condition could be harmed. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance their software’s capabilities. If we are unable to continue to license certain of this software on commercially reasonable terms, including the reporting software from Cognos and the application platform suite from 25 BEA Systems, we may face delays in releases of certain of our software solutions until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current product. These delays, if they occur, may seriously harm our business. OUR INABILITY TO DEVELOP AND SUSTAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH VENDORS SUCH AS SOFTWARE COMPANIES, CONSULTING FIRMS, RESELLERS AND OTHERS TO MARKET AND IMPLEMENT OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are developing, maintaining and enhancing significant working relationships with complementary vendors, such as software companies, consulting firms, resellers and others that we believe can play important roles in marketing our products and solutions. We are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop and enhance these relationships, which could adversely affect our operating margins. We may be unable to develop relationships with organizations that will be able to market our products effectively. Our arrangements with these organizations are not exclusive and, in many cases, may be terminated by either party without cause. Many of the organizations with which we are developing or maintaining marketing relationships have commercial relationships with our competitors. There can be no assurance that any organization will continue its involvement with us and our products. The loss of relationships with such organizations could materially and adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS ARE SUBJECT TO COST AND OTHER AUDITS BY THE GOVERNMENT AND TERMINATIONS FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT IS HIGHLY REGULATED, AND CONTRACTORS ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF PROTESTS, CLAIMS, PENALTIES, FINES, DEFAULT TERMINATION, AND RESCISSION, AMONG OTHER ACTIONS. THE ADVERSE RESULT OF A GOVERNMENT AUDIT OR ACTION AGAINST ANY OF OUR CONTRACTS WITH THE GOVERNMENT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Government contracts face special risks due to potential audits by government agencies. A significant percentage of our revenue is from time to time derived from contracts with the Federal Government. Government contractors are commonly subject to various audits and investigations by Government agencies. One agency that oversees or enforces contract performance is the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”). The DCAA generally performs a review of a contractor’s performance on its contracts, its pricing practices, costs and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards and to verify that costs have been properly charged to the Government. Although the DCAA completed an initial review of our accounting practices and procedures allowing us to invoice the Government, it has yet to exercise its option to perform an audit of our actual invoicing of Government contracts. These audits may occur several years after completion of the contract. If an audit were to identify significant unallowable costs, we could have a material charge to our earnings or reduction to our cash position as a result of the audit and this could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. 26 Government contracts are subject to unique risks of early termination. In addition, Government contracts may be subject to termination by the Government for its convenience, as well as termination, reduction or modification in the event of budgetary constraints or any change in the Government’s requirements. If any of our time-and-materials or fixed-priced contracts were to be terminated for the Government’s convenience, we would probably receive only the purchase price for items delivered prior to termination, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-progress and an allowance for profit on the contract, or an adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Government contracts are also conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis, even though the contract performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the outset of a program, the contract is usually only partially funded, and Congress must annually determine if additional funds will be appropriated to the program. As a result, long-term contracts are subject to cancellation if appropriations for future periods become unavailable. We have not historically experienced any significant material adverse effects as a result of the Government’s failure to fund programs awarded to us. If the Government were to terminate some or all of our contracts or reduce appropriations for a program under which we have a contract, cancel appropriations, or both, our operating performance and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Competitive bidding, a cornerstone to government contracting, imposes risks and costs. From time to time we derive significant revenue from federal contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs upon us. We will lose revenue if we or our contracting partners (typically, prime contractors with whom we subcontract) fail to compete effectively. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: the need to bid before design is complete, bid and proposal costs, risks in estimation of prospective needs, and bid protests that may delay or derail awards. Our work with other contractors poses risks, including risks to our reputation. As a prime contractor, we may rely upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to deliver to our government clients. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to perform the agreed-upon services on a timely and satisfactory basis may compromise our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by the subcontractor and may have exposure as a result of problems caused by the subcontractor. In extreme cases, performance deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a government client terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for the agency’s costs of re-procurement, damage our reputation, and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Additionally, we may have disputes with our subcontractors that could impair our ability to execute our contracts as required. Despite careful precautions that we take, we are exposed to risk due to potential employee misconduct in the highly regulated government marketplace. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may be ineffective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business. 27 The government marketplace has a unique risk: that appropriations to fund contracts will not be made, or will be diverted or delayed. A decline in overall U.S. government expenditures could cause a decrease in our revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. Defense spending levels may not continue at present levels, and future levels of expenditures and authorizations for existing programs may decline, remain constant, or shift to agencies or programs in areas where we do not currently have contracts. A significant decline in defense expenditures, or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support, could cause a material decline in our government-related revenue. Federal contracts are subject to unique terms and risks, not commonly found in the commercial marketplace. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to: · terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as default; · reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, often unilaterally; · terminate security clearances and thereby prevent classified contracting; · cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent years become unavailable; · decline to exercise options to renew multi-year contracts; · claim rights in certain products, systems, and technology produced by us; · prohibit future awards based on a finding of an organizational conflict of interest; subject contract awards to protest; and · suspend or debar contractors. Our federal contracts pose unique pricing risks. Much of our federal contracting is done through a type of special contract, sponsored by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), known as the “Multiple Award Schedules” (or simply “Schedules”) contract. Our GSA Schedules contract, like all others, includes a clause known as the “Price Reductions” clause; the terms of that clause are analogous to a “most favored customer” clause in commercial contracts. Under that clause, we have agreed that the prices to the government under the GSA Schedules contract will maintain a constant relationship to the prices charged to certain commercial customers, i.e., when prices to those benchmark customers drop, so too must our prices on our GSA Schedules contract. Although we have undertaken extensive efforts to comply with the Price Reductions clause, it is possible that we, through, for example, an unreported discount offered to a “benchmark” customer, might fail to honor the obligations of the Price Reductions clause. If that occurred, we could, under certain circumstances, be subject to an audit, an action in fraud, or other adverse government actions or penalties. THE LIMITED ABILITY OF LEGAL PROTECTIONS TO SAFEGUARD OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our internally developed technologies and trademarks, which we protect through a combination of confidentiality procedures and agreements, contractual provisions, patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products or obtain and use 28 information that we regard as proprietary. The shift of an increasing amount of our product development work to India may increase this risk. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly in certain foreign countries, including, among others, India and The People’s Republic of China. We are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technology similar to ours. OUR PRODUCTS MAY INFRINGE UPON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR UNEXPECTED COSTS OR PREVENT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS. The number of intellectual property claims in our industry may increase as the number of competing products grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. In recent years, there has been a tendency by software companies to file substantially increasing numbers of patent applications, including those for business methods and processes. We have no way of knowing what patent applications third parties have filed until the application is published or until a patent is issued. Patent applications are often published within 18 months of filing, but it can take as long as three years or more for a patent to be granted after an application has been filed. In addition, we license our software to our customers under software license agreements, which generally provide the customer with limited indemnifications against damages, judgments, and reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the customer for any claim or suit based on infringement of a trademark or copyright as a result of the customer’s use of the software. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third parties, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to address, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or may require us to enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Accordingly, any claims of this nature may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating performance, financial condition or cash flows. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS POSE RISKS FOR OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We currently conduct international operations primarily in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We also have operations in Brazil, Canada and Mexico. More recently, we opened a product development center in India, where we also have relationships with third parties to outsource a portion of our implementation services effort. We intend to expand our international operations and to increase the proportion of our revenue from outside the U.S. These operations require significant management attention and financial resources and additionally subject us to risks inherent in doing business internationally, such as: · failure to properly comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to our foreign activities; · failure to properly comply with U.S. laws and regulations relating to the export of our products and services; · difficulties in managing foreign operations and appropriate levels of staffing; · foreign currency exposure; · longer collection cycles; · tariffs and other trade barriers; 29 · seasonal reductions in business activities, particularly throughout Europe; · proper compliance with local tax laws which can be complex and may result in unintended adverse tax consequences; · anti-American sentiment due to the war with Iraq and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain countries; and · increasing political instability, adverse economic conditions and the potential for war or other hostilities in many of these countries. Our failure to properly comply with or address any of the above factors could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. CHANGES IN THE VALUE OF THE U.S. DOLLAR, IN RELATION TO THE CURRENCIES OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES WHERE WE TRANSACT BUSINESS, COULD HARM OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. For the fiscal years ended February 28th or 29th, 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 35.5%, 33.8% and 34.0% of our total revenue was derived from outside the U.S, respectively. Our international revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, typically the local currency of the selling business unit. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. We generally do not implement hedging programs to mitigate our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting international accounts receivable, cash balances and intercompany accounts, and we do not hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations affecting future international revenue and expenses and other commitments. For the foregoing reasons, currency exchange rate fluctuations have caused, and likely will continue to cause, variability in our foreign currency denominated revenue streams and costs and our cost to settle foreign currency denominated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FUTURE LIABILITY CLAIMS, AND THE REPUTATIONS OF OUR COMPANY AND PRODUCTS MAY SUFFER. Many of our implementations involve projects that are critical to the business operations of our clients and provide benefits to the client which may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client’s system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We have entered into and plan to continue to enter into agreements with software vendors, consulting firms, resellers and others whereby they market and implement our solutions. If these vendors fail to meet their clients’ expectations or cause failures in their clients’ systems, our reputation and that of our products could be materially and adversely affected even if our software products perform in accordance with their functional specifications. WE MAY CHOOSE TO CHANGE OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES OR OUR EARNINGS MAY BE AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF CHANGES IN THE REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE ACCOUNTING TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the implementation of a new accounting principle. 30 We currently account for stock options in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”) and, accordingly, we only record compensation expense related to stock options if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of the stock option on the date of grant. On December 16, 2004, the FASB published FASB Statement No. 123 (R) “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which was to be effective for public companies in periods beginning after June 15, 2005. On April 14, 2005, The Securities and Exchange Commission announced the adoption of a new rule that amends the compliance dates for SFAS 123(R). The new rule allows companies to implement SFAS 123(R) at the beginning of their next fiscal year instead of their next reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. We will be required to implement SFAS 123(R) beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Our earnings in fiscal 2007 could be significantly reduced as a result of changing our accounting policy in accordance with SFAS 123(R). As a result, we could decide to reduce the number of stock options granted to employees or to grant options to fewer employees. This could affect our ability to retain existing employees or attract qualified candidates, and increase the need to extend additional cash compensation we pay to employees. Such a change could have a material effect on our operating performance. In 2003, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved an amendment to our 1998 stock option plan to allow for the issuance of restricted shares of our common stock to its employees. The Company recorded $1.7 million, $1.2 million and $0.3 million in net compensation expense related to restricted shares outstanding during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. IT MAY BECOME INCREASINGLY EXPENSIVE TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN INSURANCE. We obtain insurance to cover a variety of potential risks and liabilities. In the current market, insurance coverage has become more restrictive, and when insurance coverage is offered, the deductible for which we are responsible is larger and premiums have increased substantially. As a result, it may become more difficult to maintain insurance coverage at historical levels, or if such coverage is available, the cost to obtain or maintain it may increase substantially. This may result in our being forced to bear the burden of an increased portion of risks for which we have traditionally been covered by insurance, which could have a material effect on our operating performance and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN AND IS LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. SIGNIFICANT DECLINES IN OUR STOCK PRICE MAY RESULT FOR VARIOUS REASONS, INCLUDING POOR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to be volatile. Our stock price has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly revenue and operating results and continuing losses; · corporate and consumer confidence in the economy, evidenced in part, by stock market levels; · changes in the size or number of our software transactions; · announcements of technological innovations; · new products or services offered by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; · changes in the performance, market valuations, or both, of our current and potential competitors and the software industry in general; 31 · our announcement or a competitor’s announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · adoption of industry standards and the inclusion of our technology in, or compatibility of our technology with, such standards; · adverse or unfavorable publicity about us, or our products, services or implementations; · adverse or unfavorable publicity regarding our competitors, including their products and implementations; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales or anticipated sales of additional debt or equity securities; and · other events or factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, The Nasdaq National Market and the equity markets for software companies in particular, have experienced extraordinary price and volume volatility in recent years. Such volatility has adversely affected the stock prices for many companies irrespective of, or disproportionately to, the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially and adversely further affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. On April 24, 2006, we entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger with JDA and the Merger Sub. Under the Merger Agreement, the Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing after the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of JDA. From April 24, 2006 through May 8, 2006, the per share closing prices for our common stock as reported by Nasdaq were between $2.36 and $2.45. If the Merger is not consummated, our stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed. OUR CHARTER, BYLAWS AND SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN, DELAWARE LAW AND THE INDENTURE FOR THE NOTES CONTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD DISCOURAGE A TAKEOVER EVEN IF BENEFICIAL TO SHAREHOLDERS. IN ADDITION, CERTAIN OF OUR CURRENT OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND AN ENTITY AFFILIATED WITH A DIRECTOR TOGETHER MAY BE ABLE TO EXERCISE SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER MATTERS REQUIRING SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. Our charter and our bylaws, in conjunction with Delaware law, contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our Company even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. For example, our bylaws provide for a classified board of directors and allow our board of directors to expand its size and fill any vacancies without shareholder approval. Furthermore, our board has the authority to issue preferred stock and to designate the voting rights, dividend rate and privileges of the preferred stock, all of which may be greater than the rights of common shareholders. Additionally, upon a change of control of our Company, the holders of the Notes would have the right to require us or our successor to repurchase the Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase in cash. This could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. On October 28, 2004, we adopted a shareholder rights plan that entitles our shareholders to rights to acquire shares of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock generally when a third party acquires twenty percent or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock or commences a tender offer or exchange offer for twenty percent or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive 32 a premium over their shares. In connection with the Merger Agreement, on April 24, 2006, the Company entered into an amendment to the Rights Agreement between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (formerly Equiserve Trust Company N.A.) As a result of the amendment, the preferred stock purchase rights issued under the Rights Agreement will be inapplicable to the Merger, the Merger Agreement, the Voting Agreements and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Voting Agreements. The execution, delivery, consummation or performance of the Merger Agreement, the Voting Agreements and the transactions contemplated thereby will not cause the rights to separate from shares of Company Common Stock or permit the Company’s stockholders to exercise the rights. In addition, the rights will expire immediately upon the effective time of the Merger. In addition, our current officers, directors, and Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. (“WP VIII”) an entity affiliated with William H. Janeway, one of our directors, together beneficially owned approximately 23.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at February 28, 2006. While these shareholders do not hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, if they were to vote together, they may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and sales of our assets. This factor may prevent or discourage tender offers for our common stock. In order to facilitate the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, JDA entered into the Voting Agreements, pursuant to which certain of our stockholders will vote (or cause to be voted) in person or by proxy all shares of our common stock held by them (i) in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement and approval of the transactions contemplated thereby, (ii) against any proposal made in opposition to or competition with the consummation of the Merger and the Merger Agreement, (iii) against any proposal that would reasonably lead to or result in the conditions of JDA’s or Merger Sub’s obligations under the Merger Agreement not being fulfilled, (iv) against any takeover proposal from any party other than JDA or an affiliate of JDA, and (v) against the election of a group of individuals to replace a majority or more of the individuals presently on the Company’s Board. The stockholders that signed the Voting Agreements beneficially own approximately 24% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of April 24, 2006 and include certain of our officers and directors and entities affiliated with them. If the Merger Agreement is terminated for any reason, the Voting Agreements will also terminate. The foregoing description of the Voting Agreements is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Voting Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 25, 2006 and is incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE SALES OF SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our current officers, directors, and WP VIII, together beneficially owned approximately 23.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at February 28, 2006. Pursuant to the Voting Agreements, our current officers, directors and WP VIII agreed not to directly or indirectly sell, assign, transfer, pledge, encumber or otherwise dispose of their shares of our common stock or enter into any arrangement or understanding with respect to such a sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, encumbrance or disposition. These restrictions in the Voting Agreements terminate if the Merger Agreement is terminated. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 33 