ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Several important risks and uncertainties exist that could have an impact on our future operating results. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or results that are reflected in any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors, and their impact on the success of our operations and our ability to achieve our goals, include the following: We have a history of operating losses and may continue to incur losses in the future We have incurred significant operating losses in recent years and, as of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $62 million. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenue in the future to cover our expenses and achieve profitability on a consistent basis or at all. Market Fluctuations in the Semiconductor Industry Our business depends upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of ICs. As a result, our operating results are materially dependent upon economic and business conditions in the semiconductor industry. This industry has been subject to significant market fluctuations and has experienced periodic downturns that often have had a disproportionate effect on capital equipment suppliers, such as Aetrium. In periods of excess capacity, the semiconductor industry sharply reduces purchases of capital equipment, such as our products. The worldwide financial collapse that became apparent by the end of the third quarter of 2008 resulted in an unprecedented downturn in the semiconductor industry and in the semiconductor equipment industry. Since then the industry has experienced a slow, uneven and hesitant recovery. Nevertheless, for most of that period, we have been generating operating losses and negative cash flows because of low revenue levels. There can be no assurance that this trend of industry recovery will continue and result in increased and self-sustaining levels of revenues for the company. 6 Dependence on Successful Development and Introduction of New Products and Product Improvements We operate in an industry that is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovations. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. The development of more complex ICs has driven the need for new equipment and processes to produce such devices at an acceptable cost. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in technologies, IC package types, market trends and industry standards. If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced cost-effective products on a timely basis that are accepted in the marketplace, our business and operating results will likely suffer. In addition, changes in market trends, technologies and industry standards and new product introductions may render our existing products less marketable or obsolete, which could result in reduced prices for our existing products or inventory write-downs that could have a materially adverse impact on our gross margins and operating results. Reliance on Significant Customers We rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our net sales. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of these significant customers, or the loss of one or more of these customers, would likely have a negative impact on our operating results. For example, during fiscal years 2010 and 2011 one of our historically largest test handler customers was transitioning from four-site to eight-site testing and conducted equipment evaluations of competing test handlers and other methods of IC handling. In April 2012, this customer informed us that it would not be buying eight-site test handlers from us in the future. Although we have continued to be a supplier to this customer, the reduced sales to this customer in 2012 and 2013 have significantly and adversely impacted our operating results. Impact of Competitive Markets The markets for our main product lines are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than Aetrium. For most of our customers, we are not the sole supplier of our type of equipment. In addition, it is common for customers to evaluate multiple suppliers for their requirements. Accordingly, we significantly risk losing orders to competing suppliers and being displaced as a supplier to potentially significant customers, which would likely have a negative impact on our operating results. Fixed Cost Constraints on Reduction of Expenses Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to properties, capital equipment and certain manufacturing overhead items, are fixed in the short term. Reduced demand for our products and services causes our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced production volumes, which negatively affects our gross margins and profitability. Our ability to reduce expenses is further constrained because we must continue to invest in research and development to maintain our competitive position and to service and support our existing customers. At our current revenue levels, because of costs that are fixed at least in the short term, we cannot operate profitably. Accordingly, our ability to operate profitably is dependent, at least in the short term, upon increased revenues. 7 Impact of Cost Reduction Actions In the event of a sustained downturn and continuing decline in our revenues, we may implement cost reduction actions, such as workforce reductions, pay freezes and reductions, and reductions in other expenditures. In fact we have reduced our workforce by almost 50% since September 2011 in response to the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry. In doing so, we attempted to maintain the necessary infrastructures to allow us to take full advantage of subsequent improvements in market conditions. However, there can be no assurance that reductions we have made or may make in personnel and expenditure levels and the loss of the capabilities of personnel we have terminated or may terminate will not inhibit us in the timely completion of product development efforts, effective service of and responsiveness to customer requirements, and timely ramp up of production in response to improving market conditions. In addition, we have substantially exhausted cost reductions as a means of countering declining revenues, and at our current levels of revenues we cannot achieve profitability or positive cash flows through further variable cost reduction actions. Limited market liquidity of our common stock Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of March 1, 2014, we had 1,079,176 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the fiscal year 2013 was approximately 23,000 shares per day. A more active public market for our common stock, however, may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock causes the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, you may be unable to liquidate your investment in us at a satisfactory price. Dependence on an Experienced and Qualified Senior Management Team Our success will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain new leadership and other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 8 Potential Impacts of Exploring Strategic Alternatives We are presently exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives, including, but not limited to, the potential sale of the test handler product line, a sale, merger, or other business combination involving the entire company, a recapitalization, or a joint venture arrangement. There is no set timetable for completion of this process, and we do not intend to provide updates or make any comments regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives, unless our board of directors has approved a specific transaction or otherwise deems disclosure appropriate. There can be no assurance as to whether any such transaction will be pursued or consummated or, if implemented, the degree to which any pursued strategy would be successful. We may also incur substantial costs in connection with the pursuit of strategic alternatives that are not ultimately consummated. Despite our efforts to avoid or minimize any disruption to our business, these activities may be distracting to management and unsettling to our current and prospective employees, suppliers, customers and other business partners. In addition we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and if any portion or all of our business is sold or otherwise disposed of, we could incur unexpected costs and liabilities, we may not realize the full carrying value of related assets, and/or the subsequent performance of a disposed business may exceed expectations. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions of product lines or businesses. In addition to the risks associated with any such business that may be acquired, future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the use of our cash or incurrence of debt that may reduce our ability to meet future capital expenditure and working capital requirements, the incurrence of amortization expense and/or valuation adjustments associated with goodwill and intangible assets that would reduce our profitability, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and products of the acquired business, and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Reduction in the Sales Efforts by our Current Distributors We market and sell our test handlers outside of the United States, primarily through international distributors that are not under our direct control. We have limited internal sales personnel. A reduction in the sales efforts by our current distributors, or the termination of one or more of these relationships with us, could negatively affect our operating results. Risks Inherent in our International Sales International sales have and are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. As a result, our business is subject to a number of risks inherent in conducting business internationally such as meeting special technical standards, special regulatory requirements, export restrictions, political instability, terrorism, and natural disasters, any of which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, our international sales are generally transacted in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, are not subject directly to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors and have an adverse impact on our sales, margins and results of operations. 9 Limited Supply of Significant Components for our Products Certain significant components used in our products, including certain contactor components, printed circuit boards and refrigeration systems, are currently available only from sole or limited sources. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers, and we purchase most of our components through individual purchase orders. Our inability to obtain components in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in delays or reductions in our product introductions or shipments, which could damage our relationships with our customers and cause our operating results to suffer. Impact of Legal Actions Brought Against Us As described in Item 3 below, we are a defendant in a lawsuit filed by UTHE Technology Corporation. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against all of the allegations in the complaint. However, an unfavorable outcome and/or the costs associated with this and/or other legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. We adopted a tax benefits preservation plan, designed to preserve the value of certain income tax assets, primarily tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), which may discourage acquisition and sale of large blocks of our stock and may result in significant dilution for certain stockholders On February 13, 2014, we adopted a tax benefits preservation plan in the form of a Section 382 Rights Agreement (the “382 Agreement”). The 382 Agreement is designed to preserve stockholder value and the value of certain income tax assets primarily associated with NOLs by acting as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock without the approval of the Board. The 382 Agreement may discourage existing 5% stockholders from selling their interest in a single block which may impact the liquidity of the Company's common stock, may deter institutional investors from investing in our stock, and may deter potential acquirers from making premium offers to acquire the Company, factors which may depress the market price of our stock. 