ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Several important risks and uncertainties exist that could have an impact on our future operating results. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or results that are reflected in any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors, and their impact on the success of our operations and our ability to achieve our goals, include the following: Market Fluctuations in the Semiconductor Industry Our business and results of operations depend upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of ICs. As a result, our operating results are materially dependent upon economic and business conditions in the semiconductor industry. This industry has been subject to significant market fluctuations and has experienced periodic downturns, which often have had a disproportionate effect on capital equipment suppliers, such as Aetrium. In periods of excess capacity, the semiconductor industry sharply reduces purchases of capital equipment, such as our products. The worldwide financial collapse that became apparent by the end of the third quarter of 2008 has resulted in an unprecedented downturn in the semiconductor industry and in the semiconductor equipment industry. Forecasters predict continuing deteriorating conditions in the semiconductor industry that could extend throughout 2009. Such conditions would likely further substantially reduce our revenues and operating results and require application of some of our cash reserves. Presently there are no reliable indicators of which we are aware as to when conditions in our industry may bottom or start to improve. Successful Development and Introduction of New Products and Product Improvements We operate in an industry that is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovations. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. The development of more complex ICs has driven the need for new equipment and processes to produce such devices at an acceptable cost. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in technologies, IC package types, market trends and industry standards. If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced cost-effective products on a timely basis that are accepted in the marketplace, our business and operating results will likely suffer. Reliance on Significant Customers We rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our net sales. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of these significant customers, or the loss of one or more of these customers, would likely have a negative impact on our operating results. Impact of Competitive Markets The markets for our main product lines are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we have. For most of our customers, we are not the sole supplier of our type of equipment. In addition, it is common for customers to evaluate more than one supplier’s equipment for their emerging requirements. Accordingly, we are at significant risk to lose orders to competing suppliers, and even to being displaced as a supplier to potentially significant customers, which would likely have a negative impact on our operating results. 8 Fixed Cost Constraints on Reduction of Expenses Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to properties, capital equipment and certain manufacturing overhead items, are fixed in the short term. Reduced demand for our products and services causes our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced production volumes, which negatively affects our gross margins and profitability. Our ability to reduce expenses is further constrained because we must continue to invest in research and development to maintain our competitive position and to maintain service and support for our existing customer base. Accordingly, in the event of a reduction in our revenues, resulting from an industry downturn or otherwise, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations. Impact of Cost Reduction Actions In the face of the current sustained downturn in our industry and continuing decline in our revenues, we have implemented cost reduction actions, including workforce reductions, pay freezes and reductions, and reductions in other expenditures. In doing so, we have attempted to maintain the necessary infrastructures to allow us to take full advantage of subsequent improvements in conditions, and we will attempt to do so as we continue to address the challenges our industry presents. However, there can be no assurance that reductions we have made or may make in personnel and expenditure levels and the loss of the capabilities of personnel we have terminated or may terminate will not inhibit us in the timely completion of product development efforts, the effective service of and responsiveness to customer requirements, and the timely ramp up of production in response to improving market conditions. Potential for Increase to Our Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance If the current global economic crisis and semiconductor industry downturn worsen and/or continue for an extended period of time, the potential realization of our deferred tax assets would likely be adversely impacted, in which case we could be required to increase our valuation allowance and record a corresponding charge to income tax expense. Reduction in the Sales Efforts by our Current Distributors We market and sell our test handlers and reliability test products outside of the United States primarily through international distributors that are not under our direct control. We have limited internal sales personnel. A reduction in the sales efforts by our current distributors, or the termination of one or more of these relationships with us, could negatively affect our operating results. Risks Inherent in our International Sales We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. As a result, our operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which if any of them mature could negatively impact our operating results. Supply of Significant Components for our Products Certain significant components used in our products, including certain contactor components, printed circuit boards and refrigeration systems, are currently available only from sole or limited sources. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers, and we purchase most of our components through individual purchase orders. Our inability to obtain components in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in delays or reductions in our product introductions or shipments, which could damage our relationships with our customers and cause our operating results to suffer. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 