ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. You should take these risks into account in evaluating us. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risks. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of such risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed substantially and could differ materially from the plans and other forward-looking statements included in the sections titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business The restaurant, hospitality and gaming industries are particularly affected by trends and fluctuations in demand and are highly competitive. If we are unable to successfully surmount these challenges, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Restaurant Industry The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and is affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national, regional, and local economic conditions and demographic trends. The performance of individual restaurants may be affected by factors such as: • traffic patterns, 9 Table of Contents • demographic considerations, • the amounts spent on, and the effectiveness of, our marketing efforts, • weather conditions, and • the type, number, and location of competing restaurants. We have many well established competitors with greater financial resources and longer histories of operation than ours, including competitors already established in regions where we may expand, as well as competitors planning to expand in the same regions in which we currently operate. Our competitors include national, regional, and local chains as well as local owner-operated restaurants. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for restaurant sites. Gaming Industry The United States gaming industry is intensely competitive and features many participants, including many world class destination resorts with greater name recognition and different attractions, amenities and entertainment options than our facilities. In a broader sense, gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities. Our competitors have more gaming industry experience, and many are larger and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources. Our competitors include multinational corporations that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets. We face ongoing competition as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants and the entrance of new gaming participants. Certain states have recently legalized, and several other states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Indian reservations would increase competition and could adversely affect our gaming operations. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, a worsening economy and any increases in energy and fuel prices, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase, our guests may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out or may choose more inexpensive restaurants when dining outside the home. The gaming activities we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities may decline during economic downturns. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in our restaurant, hospitality and gaming operations, as consumers spend less in anticipation of a potential prolonged economic downturn. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to offset inflation through menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007, substantially increased during the third and fourth quarter of 2008 and continued into a portion of 2009, during which time the volatility and disruption in the global financial markets reached unprecedented levels. As a result, the availability and cost of credit has been impacted. Such factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, unemployment, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, declining business and consumer confidence, declines in consumer spending, and the risk of increased inflation, have precipitated an economic slowdown which could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products and, as a result, lead to declining revenues and profit margins. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will persist, whether they will deteriorate, and the extent to which our operations will be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in single geographic areas, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by regional events. Many of our existing restaurants are concentrated in the southern half of the United States. This concentration in a particular region could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region which may differ from other regions. Also, given our present geographic concentration, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenues than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. In addition, as many of our existing restaurants are in the Gulf Coast area from Texas to Florida, we are particularly susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other severe weather conditions, the impact of frequency of which may be triggered by climate change. For example, on September 13, 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing considerable damage to the cities of Galveston, Kemah and Houston, Texas and surrounding areas. Several of our restaurants in Galveston and Kemah sustained significant damage, as did the amusement rides, the boardwalk itself and some infrastructure at the Kemah Boardwalk. Similarly, our Nashville, TN restaurants experienced significant damage due to flooding in 2010. While we maintain property and business interruption insurance, we carry large deductibles, and there can be no assurance that if a severe hurricane or other natural disaster should affect our geographical areas of operations, we would be able to maintain our current level of operations or profitability, or that property and business interruption insurance would adequately reimburse us for our losses. Moreover, in response to continued high insurance costs for our property and casualty coverage due to our large concentration of coastal properties, we significantly reduced our aggregate insurance policy limits and purchased individual windstorm policies for the majority of our operating units located along the Texas Gulf Coast. There is no assurance that we will have adequate insurance coverage to recover losses that may result from a catastrophic event. Our gaming activities rely heavily on the Nevada gaming market, and changes adversely impacting that market could have a material adverse effect on our gaming business. The Golden Nugget properties are both located in Nevada and, as a result, our gaming business is subject to greater risks than a more diversified gaming company. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks related to local economic and competitive conditions, changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) and natural and other disasters. Any economic downturn in Nevada or any terrorist activities or disasters in or around Nevada could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Nevada gaming industry revenues have declined significantly in 2008 through 2010, and there can be no assurance that gaming industry revenues will not continue to significantly decline. We also draw a substantial number of customers from other geographic areas, including southern California, Hawaii and Texas. A recession or downturn in any region constituting a significant source of our customers could result in fewer customers visiting, or customers spending less at, the Golden Nugget properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity restraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changes in food and other costs, or obtain a seafood supply in sufficient quality and quantity, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, employee benefits, and similar costs over which we have limited or no control. Specifically, our dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh seafood and produce subjects us to the risk of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions that could adversely affect the availability and cost of such items. Our business may also be affected by inflation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and avoid any adverse effect on our profitability from increasing costs. In the past, certain types of seafood have experienced fluctuations in availability. In addition, some types of seafood have been subject to adverse publicity due to certain levels of contamination at their source or a perceived scarcity in supply, which can adversely affect both supply and market demand. We can make no assurances that in the future either seafood contamination or inadequate supplies of seafood might not have a significant and materially adverse effect on our operating results. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or harm our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including regional operational managers and regional chefs, restaurant general managers, executive chefs and casino employees, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. Qualified individuals that we need to fill these positions are in short supply and competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. If our labor costs increase, our results of operations will be negatively affected. 11 Table of Contents We use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may adversely affect our results of operations. We use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Any shortage or substantial increases in the cost of electricity and natural gas in the United States will increase our cost of operations, which would negatively affect our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy price increases, but this impact could be significant. In addition, higher energy and gasoline prices affecting our customers may increase their cost of travel to our casino properties and result in reduced visits to our properties and a reduction in our revenues. The cost of compliance with the significant governmental regulation to which we are subject or our failure to comply with such regulation could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive state and local government regulation relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages and to sanitation, public health, fire and building codes. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply for and obtain from state authorities a license or permit to sell alcohol on the premises. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations affect various aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. In certain states, we may be subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from the establishment which wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our comprehensive general liability insurance. Our operations may be impacted by changes in federal and state taxes and other federal and state governmental policies which include many possible factors such as (i) the level of minimum wages, (ii) the deductibility of business and entertainment expenses, (iii) levels of disposable income and unemployment and (iv) national and regional economic growth. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required licensing or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant. The suspension of or inability to renew a license could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant, and the inability to retain or renew such licenses would adversely affect the operations of such restaurant. Our operations are also subject to requirements of local governmental entities with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors which could delay or prevent the development of new restaurants in particular locations. At the federal and state levels, there are from time to time various proposals and initiatives under consideration to further regulate various aspects of our business. For example new employment, healthcare or climate change regulations could increase our costs and decrease our operating profits. These and other initiatives could adversely affect us as well as the restaurant industry in general. In addition, seafood is harvested on a world-wide basis and, on occasion, imported seafood is subject to federally imposed import duties. We conduct licensed gaming operations in Nevada, and various regulatory authorities, including the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission, require us to hold various licenses and registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals to engage in gaming operations and to meet requirements of suitability. These gaming authorities also control approval of ownership interests in gaming operations. In its discretion, the gaming authorities may require the holder of any of our debt instruments to file applications, be investigated and be deemed suitable to own debt if the gaming authorities have reason to believe that debt ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. These gaming authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming licenses, registrations, findings of suitability or the approval of any of our ownership interests in any of the licensed gaming operations conducted in Nevada, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, for any cause they may deem reasonable. If we violate gaming laws or regulations that are applicable to us, we may have to pay substantial fines or forfeit assets. If, in the future, we operate or have an ownership interest in casino gaming facilities located outside of Nevada, we also will be subject to the gaming laws and regulations of those other jurisdictions. If additional gaming regulations are adopted or existing ones are modified in Nevada, those regulations could impose significant restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the federal and Nevada state and local legislatures that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our business. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. If there is a material increase in federal, state or local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our officers, directors and key employees are required to be licensed or found suitable by gaming authorities and the loss of, or inability to obtain, any licenses or findings of suitability may have a material adverse effect on us. Our officers, directors and key employees are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in the State of Nevada, Clark County, Nevada and the City of Las Vegas and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If any of these gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file the appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, and, as a result, our results of operations for any given quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our highest earnings have occurred in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, as our revenues in most of our restaurants have typically been higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. As a result, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings and their respective pre-opening costs. Our international operations subject us to certain external business risks that do not apply to our domestic operations. Rainforest Cafe and Bubba Gump have license arrangements relating to the operations and development of their concepts in several foreign jurisdictions. These agreements include a per unit development fee and/or restaurant royalties. Our international operations are subject to certain external business risks such as exchange rate fluctuations, import and export restrictions and tariffs, litigation in foreign jurisdictions, cultural differences, increased competition as a result of subsidies to local companies, increased expenses from inflation, political instability and the significant weakening of a local economy in which a foreign unit is located. In addition, it may be more difficult to register and protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could reduce our ability to capitalize on our brand names, which could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Landry’s, Rainforest Cafe, Chart House, Charley’s Crab, Saltgrass and Golden Nugget are each registered as a federal service mark on the Principal Register of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Crab House is a registered design mark. We also license the name Bubba Gump from Paramount Licensing, Inc. There is no assurance that any of our rights in any of our intellectual property will be enforceable, even if registered, against any prior users of similar intellectual property or against any of our competitors who seek to utilize similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. The failure to enforce or the unenforceability of any of our intellectual property rights could have the effect of reducing our ability to capitalize on our efforts to establish brand equity. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation, the cost or adverse results of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may from time to time be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Negative publicity may also result from actual or alleged violations of “dram shop” laws which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated party who then causes injury to himself or to a third party. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. A significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Unfavorable publicity resulting from these claims relating to a limited number of our restaurants or only relating to a single restaurant could adversely affect the public perception of all our restaurants within that particular brand. Adverse publicly and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material affect on our financial condition. In connection with certain of our discontinued operations, we remain the guarantor or assignor under a number of leased locations. In the event of future defaults under any of such leased locations we may be responsible for significant damages to landlords which may materially affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Health concerns relating to the consumption of seafood, beef and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of seafood, beef or chicken. In addition, negative publicity concerning food quality or possible illness and injury resulting from the consumption of certain types of food, such as negative publicity concerning the levels of mercury or other carcinogens in certain types of seafood, oil contaminations of seafood, e-coli, salmonella, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to food products served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning the food products we serve at any of our restaurants may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot guarantee that our operational controls and employee training will be effective in preventing food-borne illnesses, such as hepatitis A, and other food safety issues that may affect our restaurants. Food-borne illness incidents could be caused by food suppliers and transporters and, therefore, could be outside of our control. Any publicity relating to health concerns or the perceived or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues attributed to one or more of our restaurants could result in a significant decrease in guest traffic in all of our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face the risk of litigation in connection with any outbreak of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues at any of our restaurants. If a claim is successful, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or losses and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we suffer losses, liabilities or loss of income in excess of our insurance coverage or if our insurance does not cover such loss, liability or loss of income, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Restaurant companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. We are subject to a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of our business brought by or on behalf of our customers or employees, including personal injury claims, contract claims, and employment-related claims. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including collective and class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. We are currently defending purported collective action lawsuits alleging violations, among other things, of minimum wage and overtime provisions of federal and state labor laws. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business. We offer no assurance that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Rising interest rates would increase our borrowing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently have, and may incur, additional indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to access capital markets when necessary. We may find it necessary in the future to issue additional debt or equity to support ongoing operations, to undertake capital expenditures, or to undertake acquisitions or other business combination transactions. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Additionally, since we no longer have public equity outstanding, our access to the public equity markets may be limited. These market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations, including the notes when they become due, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to further reevaluate our ratings. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. In addition, the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our amended and restated senior secured credit facility will contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our inability to raise financing to support ongoing operations or to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions could limit our growth and may have a material adverse effect on us. The loss of Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business and development. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Fertitta’s services could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there can be no assurance that an adequate replacement could be found for Mr. Fertitta in the event of his unavailability. 14 Table of Contents There are inherent limitations in all control systems that may result in undetected errors. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, errors may not be detected. Tilman J. Fertitta is our Sole Shareholder. Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, owns 100% of the Company’s common stock and controls our voting power. As a result, Mr. Fertitta controls the election of the Company’s Board of Directors and controls the shareholder vote on all matters. We are not required to and do not have any independent board members or an independent compensation, nominating or corporate governance committee. Additionally, as a result of Mr. Fertitta’s ownership of our common stock, we are no longer required to and do not expect to continue filing reports with the SEC. As a result, publicly available information about our business may be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 