Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 21 PART II. 22 Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 39 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 39 Item 9B. Other Information 40 PART III. 41 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 41 Item 11. Executive Compensation 41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Holders and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 41 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 43 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 43 PART IV. 44 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 44 SIGNATURES 90 EXHIBIT INDEX 91 i Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the appearance in such a statement of words like “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “should” or “will” or other comparable words or the negative of these words. When you consider our forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors we describe and other cautionary statements we make in this offering circular. Our forward-looking statements are only predictions based on expectations that we believe are reasonable. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of known risks and uncertainties set forth below and elsewhere in this offering circular. These factors include or relate to the following: • our ability to implement our business strategy; • our ability to expand and grow our business and operations; • the outcome of legal proceedings that have been, or may be, initiated against us related to the proposed merger with an affiliate in 2008 and its termination; • the impact of future commodity prices; • the availability of food products, materials and employees; • consumer perceptions of food safety; • changes in local, regional and national economic conditions; • the effects of local and national economic, credit and capital market conditions on the economy in general and our businesses in particular; • the effectiveness of our marketing efforts; • changing demographics surrounding our restaurants, hotels and casinos; • the effect of changes in tax laws; • actions of regulatory, legislative, executive or judicial decisions at the federal, state or local level with regard to our business and the impact of any such actions; • our ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and our ability to receive regulatory approval for our new businesses; • our expectations of the continued availability and cost of capital resources; • our ability to obtain long-term financing and the cost of such financing, if available; • the seasonality and cyclical nature of our business; • weather and acts of God; • whether the final property and business interruption losses resulting from Hurricane Ike will be in accordance with our current estimates; • the ability to maintain existing management; • the impact of potential acquisitions of other restaurants, gaming operations and lines of businesses in other sectors of the hospitality and entertainment industries; • the impact of potential divestitures of restaurants, restaurant concepts and other operations or lines of business; • food, labor, fuel and utilities costs; and • the other factors discussed under “Risk Factors.” ii Table of Contents We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. To the extent these risks, uncertainties and assumptions give rise to events that vary from our expectations, the forward-looking events discussed herein may not occur. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Some of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are more fully described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, or in the documents incorporated by reference herein. We assume no obligation to modify or revise any forward looking statements to reflect any subsequent events or circumstances arising after the date that the statement was made. iii Table of Contents LANDRY’S RESTAURANTS, INC. PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a national, diversified restaurant, hospitality and entertainment company principally engaged in the ownership and operation of full-service, specialty location restaurants, with 175 locations in 27 states and Canada as of December 31, 2008. We are one of the largest full-service restaurant operators in the United States, operating primarily under the names of Rainforest Cafe, Saltgrass Steak House, Landry’s Seafood House, Charley’s Crab and The Chart House. Our concepts range from upscale steak and seafood restaurants to theme-based restaurants, and consist of a broad array of formats, menus and price-points that appeal to a wide range of markets and consumer tastes. We are also engaged in the ownership and operation of select hospitality and entertainment businesses, which include hotels, casino resorts, aquarium complexes and the Kemah Boardwalk, a 40-acre amusement, entertainment and retail complex in Kemah, Texas, among others. We also own and operate the Golden Nugget Hotels and Casinos in downtown Las Vegas and Laughlin, Nevada. We opened the first Landry’s Seafood House restaurant in 1980. In 1993, we became a public company. Our stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “LNY.” We acquired Rainforest Cafe, Inc., a publicly traded restaurant company, in 2000. During 2001, we changed our name to Landry’s Restaurants, Inc. to reflect our expansion and broadening of operations. During 2002, we acquired 15 Charley’s Crab seafood restaurants located primarily in Michigan and Florida, and 27 Chart House seafood restaurants, located primarily on the East and West Coasts of the United States. In October 2002, we purchased 27 Texas-based Saltgrass Steak House restaurants. In September 2005, we acquired the Golden Nugget Hotels and Casinos located in Las Vegas and Laughlin, Nevada. The entities that own and operate the Golden Nugget Hotels and Casinos are separately financed, unrestricted subsidiaries of the Company. We believe that the Golden Nugget brand name is one of the most recognized in the gaming industry and is highly complementary to our portfolio of leading restaurant, hospitality and entertainment operations. Both Golden Nugget locations offer extensive arrays of amenities and high degrees of hospitality, service and attention to detail. We expect to continue to capitalize on the strong name recognition and high level of quality and value associated with the brand. In February 2006, we acquired 80% of T-Rex Cafe, Inc. (“T-Rex”) and committed to the construction of at least four restaurants, two of which are located at high profile Disney properties. Three of the four restaurants have been completed and are operating. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, as part of a strategic review of our operations, we initiated a plan to divest certain restaurants, including 136 Joe’s units. In November 2006, we completed the sale of 120 Joe’s. Subsequently, several additional locations were added to our disposal plan. Recent Developments On June 16, 2008, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended on October 18, 2008 (the “Merger Agreement”), with Fertitta Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Parent”), and Fertitta Acquisition Co., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (“Merger Sub”), which are solely owned by Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, to acquire all of our issued and outstanding capital stock (the “Proposed Acquisition”). In order to finance the Proposed Acquisition in part, Mr. Fertitta entered into a debt commitment letter dated June 12, 2008 (the “Initial Commitment Letter”), as amended on October 17, 2008 (the “Commitment Letter Amendment” and together with the Initial Commitment Letter, the “Commitment Letter”) with Jefferies Funding LLC, Jefferies & Company, Inc., Jefferies 1 Table of Contents Finance LLC and Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC (the “Lenders”). In addition to the commitment to provide financing for the Proposed Acquisition, the Commitment Letter also contained a commitment by the Lenders to provide alternative financing in the event the Proposed Acquisition was not consummated (the “Alternative Commitment”). In connection with the proxy statement required to be provided to Company stockholders voting on the Proposed Acquisition, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) required the Company to disclose certain information from the Commitment Letter issued by the Lenders to Mr. Fertitta and the Company. The Commitment Letter issued by the Lenders required that such information not be disclosed and be kept confidential and that disclosure of such information would be a basis for termination of such Commitment Letter. The Company informed Mr. Fertitta that the Company was not prepared to risk losing the Alternative Commitment and was therefore unable to comply with a condition of the Merger Agreement which required distribution of an SEC approved proxy statement to Company stockholders to vote on the adoption of the merger proposal. As a result of the Company’s inability to provide a proxy statement to Company stockholders, the Company informed Mr. Fertitta that it would be unable to consummate the Proposed Acquisition. The Merger Agreement was terminated by agreement of the parties on January 11, 2009. Due to a number of factors affecting consumers, including rising unemployment, home foreclosures, a slowdown in global economies, contracting credit markets, and reduced consumer spending, the near term outlook for the restaurant, hospitality, and entertainment industries is uncertain. The economic slow down accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into the first quarter of 2009. In response to the current economic conditions, we have taken measures to increase our efficiencies and reduce our cost structure across our businesses. In addition, we have lowered our growth plans for new restaurants to conserve capital resources. Significant events that affected our 2008 results, as compared to 2007, or that may affect our future results, are described below: • The impact of Hurricane Ike which resulted in significant disruption to our Houston, Kemah and Galveston restaurants. We have reopened all restaurants and received insurance proceeds, including business interruption, sufficient to replace substantially all of our lost profits and damaged property. However, the long term impact of the storm, if any, is uncertain. • The refinancing of our credit facility and senior unsecured notes with a new bank agreement and senior secured notes that mature in May and August 2011, respectively carry substantially higher interest rates. The new agreements also contain more restrictive covenants than our previous agreements. • Construction of the new hotel tower at the Golden Nugget Las Vegas with an estimated completion date in late 2009 at a cost of approximately $140.0 million will significantly increase our debt for the Golden Nugget Las Vegas at a time when the near term outlook for the gaming industry is uncertain. • The termination of our merger agreement and associated non recurring transaction costs. Core Restaurant Concepts Our portfolio of restaurant concepts consists of a variety of formats, each providing our guests with a distinct dining experience. We currently operate our restaurants through the following divisions: • Landry’s Division—our high-profile seafood and signature restaurants; • Rainforest Cafe Division—our rainforest-, asian and prehistoric-themed restaurants; • Saltgrass Steak House Division—our Texas-Western-themed restaurants; and • Chart House Division—our upscale seafood restaurants primarily at waterfront locations. 2 Table of Contents Landry’s Division. The Landry’s Division is comprised of 68 Landry’s Seafood House and C.A. Muer restaurants (which include restaurants that operate under several trade names, primarily Charley’s Crab), as well as our Signature Group restaurants, which together generated 26.4% of our restaurant and hospitality revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Alcoholic beverage sales accounted for approximately 19.0% of these revenues. • Landry’s Seafood House and Charley’s Crab. Landry’s Seafood House and Charley’s Crab are full-service seafood restaurants. Each offers an extensive menu featuring fresh fish, shrimp, crab, lobster, scallops, other seafood, beef and chicken specialties in a comfortable, relaxed atmosphere. The Landry’s Seafood House restaurants feature a prototype look that is readily identified by a large theater-style marquee over the entrance and by a distinctive brick and wood facade, creating the feeling of a traditional old seafood house restaurant. Charley’s Crab restaurants, the first of which was founded in 1964, are generally situated throughout Michigan and Florida, include numerous waterfront locations and have unique architectural details, with two restaurants located in renovated historical train stations. Landry’s Seafood House dinner entrée prices range from $6.99 to $28.99, with certain items offered at market price. Lunch entrées range from $6.50 to $21.99. Charley’s Crab dinner entrée prices range from $17.99 to $43.99, with lunch entrée prices ranging from $8.50 to $22.99. • Signature Group. Landry’s Signature Group, initiated in 2003, includes fine dining and upscale concepts such as Vic & Anthony’s, a world-class steakhouse with locations in downtown Houston, Texas and in the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas, and the award-winning Pesce seafood restaurant. Both Vic & Anthony’s and Pesce are included in many “Top 10” lists in their respective categories. Grotto, one of Houston’s most popular upscale Italian eateries, has locations in Houston, Texas, The Woodlands, Texas and the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas. Brenner’s Steakhouse, a Houston tradition since 1936, has expanded to two locations. Willie G’s, one of Landry’s original concepts that features Louisiana style fresh seafood, has locations in Houston, Texas, Galveston, Texas and Denver, Colorado. The Signature Group accommodates the needs of the high-end consumer who we believe is less impacted by overall economic conditions. Rainforest Cafe Division. The Rainforest Cafe Division comprised of 32 Rainforest Cafe, T-Rex Cafe and Yak & Yeti theme-based restaurants, generated 30.7% of our restaurant and hospitality revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Alcoholic beverage sales and retail sales accounted for approximately 20.8% of these revenues. These restaurants typically are larger units generating higher unit volumes than restaurants in our other concept, with operating profit margins that are comparable to our other restaurants. Five of these restaurants are located on high-profile Disney properties. In October 2008, the fifth restaurant was opened at Downtown Disney in Orlando, Florida. • Rainforest Cafe. Each Rainforest Cafe consists of a restaurant and a retail village. The Rainforest Cafe restaurants provide full-service dining in a visually and audibly stimulating and entertaining rainforest-themed environment that appeals to a broad range of customers. The restaurant provides an attractive value to customers by offering a full menu of high-quality food and beverage items served in a simulated rainforest complete with thunderstorms, waterfalls and active wildlife. Entrée prices range from $8.99 to $23.99. In the retail village, we sell complementary apparel, toys and gifts with the Rainforest Cafe logo in addition to other items reflecting the rainforest theme. • T-Rex Cafe. In February 2006, we acquired 80% of T-Rex Cafe, Inc. T-Rex Cafe is a unique concept that features an interactive prehistoric environment with life-size animatronic dinosaurs. Each T-Rex Cafe offers a full menu of high-quality food and beverage items and unique merchandise. Under the agreement, we guaranteed the funding for the construction, development and pre-opening of at least three T-Rex Cafes. The first T-Rex Cafe opened in July 2006 in Kansas City, Kansas and the second unit opened in October 2008 at Downtown Disney in Orlando, Florida. • Yak & Yeti. In February 2006, we also acquired the majority interest in Yak & Yeti, a new Asian themed restaurant that opened in November 2007 at Walt Disney World’s Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Florida. In a setting reminiscent of a rural Himalayan village, the Asian-Fusion concept offers both 3 Table of Contents full-service table dining and quick service food, as well as a retail component offering traditional Asian dinnerware ranging from sushi plates to chopsticks to fine teapots. Saltgrass Steak House Division. Our 42 Saltgrass Steak House restaurants generated 19.4% of our restaurant and hospitality revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Alcoholic beverage sales accounted for approximately 11.9% of these revenues. The Saltgrass Steak House restaurants offer full-service dining in a Texas-Western theme which welcomes guests into a stone and wood beam ranch house complete with a fireplace and a saloon-style bar. Menu options extend from filet mignon to chicken fried steak to fresh fish to grilled chicken breast. Dinner entrée prices range from $8.99 to $26.99 and lunch entrée prices range from $7.99 to $15.99. Chart House Division. The Chart House Division is comprised of 27 Chart House restaurants, which generated 13.4% of our restaurant and hospitality revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Alcoholic beverage sales accounted for approximately 21.2% of these revenues. The Chart House has a very long and successful history of providing an upscale full service dining experience. Founded in 1961, Chart House restaurants are located on some of the most scenic properties on the East and West coasts, including many prime waterfront venues. The Chart House restaurant menus offer an extensive variety of seasonal fresh fish, shrimp, beef and other daily seafood specialties and several restaurants also offer lunch seating and a Sunday brunch. Chart House dinner entrée prices range from $18.99 to $44.99. Specialty Division Our Specialty Division, which generated 10.1% of our restaurant and hospitality revenues, consists of hospitality and amusement properties that provide ancillary revenue streams and opportunities complementary to our core restaurant business. The Specialty Division includes the following properties: • Kemah Boardwalk. Our Specialty Division commenced operations with the 1999 opening of the Kemah Boardwalk, our owned amusement, entertainment and retail complex located on approximately 40 acres in Galveston, Texas. The Kemah Boardwalk has multiple attractions; including specialty retail shops, a boutique hotel, a marina, and carnival-style rides and games. In August 2007, the Boardwalk Bullet roller coaster opened, which is the largest wooden roller coaster on the Gulf Coast of Texas, towering over 96 feet tall overlooking Galveston Bay. The Kemah Boardwalk’s activities are based upon and complementary to the business and traffic generated at our nine wholly-owned and operated high-volume restaurants situated at that location, which include units from most of our core restaurant concepts described above as well as the original Aquarium Restaurant. • Aquariums. We currently operate two aquarium complexes featuring Aquarium Underwater Dining Adventure restaurants in Denver, Colorado and Houston, Texas. In addition, we operate two Aquarium Underwater Dining Adventure restaurants in Nashville, Tennessee and Kemah, Texas. In 1998, we opened the original Aquarium Restaurant in Kemah, Texas at the Kemah Boardwalk. We opened a second aquarium, the Downtown Aquarium in Houston, Texas, in 2003. In addition to a restaurant, the Downtown Aquarium features a public aquarium complex with over 200 species of fish, a giant acrylic shark tank, dancing water fountains, a mini-amusement park and a bar/lounge. Also in 2003, we acquired Ocean Journey, a 12-acre aquarium complex located adjacent to downtown Denver, Colorado. This world-class facility, which is wholly-owned and operated, is home to over 400 species of fish. In 2004, we opened an Aquarium Restaurant in Nashville, Tennessee featuring a 200,000 gallon aquarium. In 2005, we opened an up-scale Aquarium Restaurant in Denver, Colorado, which transformed the aquarium into a recreational destination and renamed the facility the Downtown Aquarium. • Hotels. We currently own, operate and/or manage five hotel properties in Texas. Opened in 2004, the Inn at the Ballpark, located in downtown Houston, is a luxury hotel featuring over 200 rooms located directly across the street from Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros baseball team. The hotel also offers easy access to all of downtown Houston’s amenities, including the newly expanded George R. Brown Convention Center, the new Toyota Center, home of the Houston Rockets basketball team, the 4 Table of Contents theater district and our Downtown Aquarium. The Boardwalk Inn is a full service hotel located in the center of the Kemah Boardwalk. We manage the Galveston San Luis Resort Spa & Conference Center and the Galveston Island Hilton, which are owned by Fertitta Hospitality, L.L.C., and we own and operate the Galveston Holiday Inn on the Beach, which is owned by a separately financed, unrestricted subsidiary. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Management Agreement.” • Tower of the Americas. In 2004, we entered into a 15-year lease agreement with the City of San Antonio to renovate and operate the 750-foot landmark Tower of the Americas, a major tourist attraction in San Antonio which also includes a revolving Chart House restaurant, an open air observation deck at the top of the tower, and a Texas-themed 4-D “multi-sensory” theater on the ground level. Gaming Division In 2005, Landry’s Gaming, Inc., a separately financed, unrestricted subsidiary, acquired the Golden Nugget, Inc., owner of the Golden Nugget. The Golden Nugget—Las Vegas occupies approximately eight acres in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada, with approximately 53,400 square feet of gaming area. As of December 31, 2008, the property featured three towers containing 1,915 rooms, the largest number of guestrooms in downtown Las Vegas, approximately 1,358 slot machines and 66 table games. The Golden Nugget—Laughlin has approximately 32,000 square feet of gaming space and as of December 31, 2008 had 1,028 slot machines, 17 table games and 300 hotel rooms in Laughlin, Nevada. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Golden Nugget properties generated total revenues of $253.3 million. The subsidiaries that own and operate the Golden Nugget are separately financed, unrestricted subsidiaries with $422.5 million of debt as of December 31, 2008, which includes $39.5 million of funds used in the current development of an additional new hotel tower to have approximately 500 rooms. We believe that the Golden Nugget brand name is one of the most recognized in the gaming industry and we expect to continue to capitalize on the strong name recognition and high level of quality and value associated with it. Demonstrating a long-standing commitment to quality and service, the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas has received the prestigious AAA Four Diamond Award for thirty-two consecutive years, which is a record for any lodging establishment in Nevada. Presented by the American Automobile Association, a North American motoring and leisure travel organization, the 2009 award was given to only 19 Nevada hotels of the approximately 50,000 eligible lodging establishments in the United States evaluated by the AAA. According to the AAA, establishments that receive the AAA Four Diamond Award are upscale in all areas and offer extensive arrays of amenities and high degrees of hospitality, service and attention to detail. Our business strategy is to create the best possible gaming and entertainment experience for our customers by providing a combination of comfortable and attractive surroundings with attentive service from friendly, experienced employees. We target out-of-town customers at both of our properties while also catering to the local customer base. The Golden Nugget—Las Vegas offers the same complement of services as our Las Vegas Strip competitors, but we believe that our customers prefer the boutique experience we offer and the downtown environment. We emphasize the property’s wide selection of amenities to complement guests’ gaming experience and provide a luxury room product, exceptional dining alternatives and personalized services at an attractive value. At the Golden Nugget—Laughlin, we focus on providing a high level of customer service, a quality dining experience at an appealing value, a slot product with highly competitive pay tables and player rewards programs. Our Competitive Strengths Stable and Diversified Cash Flows. Our nationwide system of 175 full-service restaurants consists of multiple formats and varied price points, from upscale fine dining to mid-scale casual dining, and offers a variety of menus that have both regional and national appeal. Many of our restaurant and hospitality locations are situated in high-profile, specialty locations in markets that provide a balanced mix of tourist, convention, business and residential clientele. We believe that this strategy results in a high volume of new and repeat 5 Table of Contents customers and provides us with increased name recognition in new markets. Our menu diversification reduces our dependence on any particular seafood or commodity, and allows us to select from a variety of seafood species to best provide our guests with an attractive price-value relationship. Our experience operating multiple concepts in diverse geographic areas and types of locations enables us to select the most appropriate format for each property. In addition, we believe that our geographic diversification limits operational issues related to regional weather or economic conditions, and provides stability to our operations and cash flows. Significant Base of Owned Assets in Prime Locations. We believe one of our core strengths is the identification, valuation, negotiation and purchase or lease of attractive locations for our restaurant and hospitality operations. Our portfolio of owned properties includes 55 restaurant properties and many properties in our Specialty Division. Out of our 175 restaurants, we operate 75 waterfront restaurants and restaurants at a number of high-profile locations (including five units at Disney theme parks), as well as restaurants at the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota and Fisherman’s Wharf in San Francisco, California. Experienced Management Team. We have a talented management team with extensive experience in the restaurant industry and a history of operating, developing and acquiring hospitality businesses. Our senior management team, led by Tilman J. Fertitta, our founder and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, has an average of 18 years of experience with us and 26 years of industry experience. In addition to an experienced and committed senior management team, we also have a talented operations organization at the regional and individual restaurant, which we believe contributes significantly to our success. Our management team has grown our revenues from approximately $400.0 million in 1998 to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, through both developing new properties and integrating acquisitions. Our Business Strategy Our objective is to develop and operate a diversified restaurant, hospitality and entertainment company offering customers unique dining, leisure and entertainment experiences. We believe that this strategy creates a loyal customer base, generates a high level of repeat business and provides consistent levels of profitability and cash flows. By focusing on high-quality food, superior value and service, and the ambiance of our locations, we strive to create an environment that fosters repeat patronage and encourages word-of-mouth recommendations. Our operating strategy focuses on the following: • Provide an Attractive Price-Value Entertainment and Dining Experience. Our restaurants provide customers an attractive price-value relationship by serving generous portions with fresh ingredients in high-quality meals in comfortable and attractive surroundings with attentive service at reasonable prices. With a significant seafood component, our restaurants have flexibility in procuring alternative products based on price and availability, allowing us to promptly change menu items and prices to assure quality and value for our guests. In addition, our culinary experts conduct menu evaluations and reengineering to ensure our restaurants feature sought after core menu items along with bold, fresh offerings to attract new and repeat guests. We believe that the distinctive, visually stimulating design and décor of our restaurants makes us a destination for special occasion diners and travelers. We provide our customers prompt, friendly and efficient service, keeping table-to-wait staff ratios low. We strive to create a memorable dining experience for customers to ensure repeat and frequent patronage. • Attract and Retain Quality Employees. We believe there is a high correlation between the quality of unit management and our long-term success. We provide extensive training and attractive compensation and focus on internal promotion to foster a strong corporate culture and create a sense of personal commitment from our employees. Through our cash bonus program, our restaurant managers typically earn bonuses equal to 15% to 25% of their total cash compensation. We believe this encourages attentive customer service and consistent food quality for our guests. 6 Table of Contents • Focus on Store-Level Operating Performance. We remain committed to improving store-level operating performance. We spent $11.7 million during 2006 and 2007 on corporate and store-based systems which enable management to leverage point-of-sale data obtained on a daily basis for improved responsiveness to market and operating conditions. Additionally, we have aggressively maintained the condition of our restaurants. We will continue to maintain the condition of our restaurants in order to promote repeat and frequent patronage by our guests. The following is a summary of our major acquisitions: Rainforest Cafe (2000). Since our acquisition of Rainforest Cafe, we have focused on stabilizing this concept’s operations. We have closed unprofitable locations, renegotiated leases, reduced general and administrative expenses and refreshed the concept’s menu with proven menu items from our other concepts. We have also opened new units in high traffic tourist locations. Chart House and C.A. Muer (2002). The Chart House and C.A. Muer restaurant acquisitions enabled us to purchase a collection of valuable restaurant locations, many of which are situated on premium waterfront properties on the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. We have remodeled many of these units, freshening and updating the look of these venues. In addition, these restaurants have undergone menu evaluations and re-engineering in order for us to feature successful dishes from previous menus side-by-side with bold, fresh ideas from our culinary experts. The remodeling and menu changes have been met with favorable results as evidenced by strong sales trends. No significant near-term expansion of these concepts is currently planned, and future growth will be dependent upon profitability and unit economics. Saltgrass Steak House (2002). The nearly seamless integration of Saltgrass Steak House restaurants into our systems in late 2002 was highlighted by the conversion of all 27 restaurants to our financial tools within 60 days of acquisition. These tools include our point-of-sale system and also implementation of our profitability and labor/payroll programs. Since the acquisition, we have expanded the concept, opening two new steak houses in 2003, four in 2004, two in 2005, five in 2006 and five in 2007, three of which we converted from Joe’s Crab Shack restaurants into Saltgrass Steak Houses. We also opened our first unit outside of Texas in 2006. We will continue to evaluate potential sites for this concept in both existing and new markets in 2009. Golden Nugget (2005). The Golden Nugget acquisition allowed us to enter the gaming business with one of the most recognized brands in the industry and in the preeminent gaming city, Las Vegas, Nevada. We also acquired the Golden Nugget property in Laughlin, Nevada. T-Rex (2006). In February 2006, we acquired 80% of T-Rex Cafe, Inc. and committed to the construction of at least four restaurants (including Yak & Yeti’s). Three of the locations have already opened with two of them being at high profile Disney properties. Restaurant Locations Our restaurants generally range in size from 5,000 square feet to 16,000 square feet. The Rainforest Cafe and T-Rex Cafe restaurants are larger, generally ranging in size from approximately 15,000 to 30,000 square feet with an average restaurant size of approximately 20,000 square feet. The Rainforest Cafe and T-Rex restaurants have between 300 and 600 restaurant seats with an average of approximately 400 seats. 7 Table of Contents The following table enumerates by state the location of our restaurants as of December 31, 2008: State Numberof Units State Numberof Units Alabama 2 Minnesota 1 Arizona 2 Missouri 2 California 13 Nevada 8 Colorado 8 New Jersey 5 Connecticut 1 New Mexico 1 Florida 23 Oklahoma 1 Georgia 1 Oregon 1 Illinois 4 Pennsylvania 2 Kansas 2 South Carolina 2 Kentucky 1 Tennessee 2 Louisiana 4 Texas 74 Maryland 2 Virginia 1 Massachusetts 2 Washington 1 Michigan 8 Ontario, Canada 1 Total 175 Hotels and Other Properties We own and operate the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas and Golden Nugget—Laughlin through wholly owned, separately financed, unrestricted subsidiaries. The Golden Nugget—Las Vegas occupies approximately eight acres in downtown Las Vegas. The Golden Nugget—Laughlin occupies approximately 13.5 acres, all of which is owned by us. We currently own and/or operate a hotel property in each of Houston, Texas and Kemah, Texas. The Inn at the Ballpark is located in downtown Houston directly across the street from Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros baseball team, and is wholly-owned and operated by us. The Boardwalk Inn is a full-service hotel located in the center of the Kemah Boardwalk. We also manage the Galveston San Luis Resort Spa & Conference Center and the Galveston Island Hilton, which are owned by Fertitta Hospitality, L.L.C., and own and operate the Holiday Inn Resort Galveston on the Beach, which is a wholly-owned, separately financed, unrestricted subsidiary. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Management Agreement.” We are also the developer and operator of the Kemah Boardwalk located south of Houston, Texas. We own and operate substantially all of the 40-acre Kemah Boardwalk development, which includes eight restaurants (included in the table above), a hotel, retail shops, amusement attractions, and a marina. Our corporate office in Houston, Texas is a multi-story building owned by us and includes meeting and training facilities, and a research and development test kitchen. We also own and operate approximately 75,000 square feet of warehouse facilities used primarily for construction activities and related storage and retail goods storage and distribution related activities. We own and operate several additional limited menu restaurants, hospitality venues and other properties which are excluded from the numerical counts due to materiality. Menu Our seafood restaurants offer a wide variety of high quality, broiled, grilled, and fried seafood items at moderate prices, including red snapper, shrimp, crawfish, crab, lump crabmeat, lobster, oysters, scallops, flounder, and many other traditional seafood items, many with a choice of unique seasonings, stuffings and toppings. Menus include a wide variety of seafood appetizers, salads, soups and side dishes. We provide high quality beef, fowl, pastas, and other American food entrees as alternatives to seafood items. Our restaurants also 8 Table of Contents feature a unique selection of desserts often made fresh on a daily basis at each location. Many of our restaurants offer complimentary salad with each entree, as well as certain lunch specials and popularly priced children’s entrees. The Rainforest Cafe menu offers traditional American fare, including beef, chicken and seafood. Saltgrass Steak House offers a variety of Certified Angus Beef, prime rib, pork ribs, fresh seafood, chicken and other Texas cuisine favorites at moderate prices. Management and Employees We staff our operating units with management that has experience in our industry. We believe our strong team-oriented culture helps us attract highly motivated employees who provide customers with a superior level of service. We train our kitchen employees, wait staff, hotel staff and casino employees to take great pride serving our customers in accordance with our high standards. Managers and staff are trained to be courteous and attentive to customer needs, and the managers, in particular, are instructed to regularly visit with customers. Senior corporate management hosts weekly meetings with our general managers to discuss individual unit performance and customer comments. Moreover, we require general managers to hold weekly meetings at their individual operating units. We monitor compliance with our quality requirements through periodic on-site visits and formal periodic inspections by regional field managers and supervisory personnel from our corporate offices. Our typical seafood unit has a general manager and several kitchen and floor managers. We have internally promoted many of the general managers after training them in all areas of restaurant management with a strong emphasis on kitchen operations. The general managers typically spend a portion of their time in the dining area of the restaurant, supervising the staff and providing service to customers. The Rainforest Cafe and T-Rex Cafe unit management structure is more complex due generally to higher unit level sales, larger facilities, more sophisticated theming, including animatronics, aquariums, and complementary retail business activity. A management team consisting of floor, kitchen, retail, facility and outside sales managers supports the general manager. Each restaurant management team is eligible to receive monthly incentive bonuses. These employees typically earn between 15% and 25% of their total cash compensation under this program. We have spent considerable effort in developing employee growth programs whereby a large number of promotions occur internally. We require each trainee to participate in a formal training program that utilizes departmental training manuals, examinations and a scheduled evaluation process. We require newly hired wait staff to spend from five to ten days in training before they serve our customers. We utilize a program of background checks for prospective management employees, such as criminal checks, credit checks, driving record and drug screening. Management training encompasses three general areas: • all service positions; • management, accounting, personnel management, and dining room and bar operations; and • kitchen management, which entails food preparation and quality controls, cost controls, training, ordering and receiving and sanitation operations. Due to our enhanced training program, management training customarily lasts approximately 8 to 12 weeks, depending upon the trainee’s prior experience and performance relative to our objectives. As we expand, we will need to hire additional management personnel, and our continued success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, train, and retain quality management employees. As a result of the enhanced training programs, we attract and retain a greater proportion of management personnel through our existing base of employees and internal promotions and advancements. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 53 individuals involved in regional management functions generally performing on-site visits, formal inspections and similar responsibilities. As we grow, we 9 Table of Contents plan to increase the number of regional managers, and to have each regional manager responsible for a limited number of restaurants within their geographic area. We plan to promote successful experienced restaurant level management personnel to serve as future regional managers. Regional management is continuously evaluated for performance and effectiveness. As of December 31, 2008, in the restaurant division, we employed approximately 16,836 persons, of whom 1,087 were restaurant managers or manager-trainees, 241 were salaried corporate and administrative employees, approximately 53 were operations regional management employees, 41 were development and construction employees and the rest were hourly employees. Typical restaurant employment for us is at a seasonal low at December 31, and may increase by 30% or more in the summer months. Our restaurants generally employ an average of approximately 60 to 100 people, depending on seasonal needs. The larger Rainforest Cafe restaurants generally have 160 to 200 employees on average, with certain larger volume units having in excess of 400 people. We believe that our management level employee turnover for 2008 was within industry standards. We employed approximately 2,848 persons in the gaming division as of December 31, 2008, of whom 261 were management, 300 were salaried employees and the rest were hourly employees. Approximately 1,242 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements at the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas. We consider our relationship with employees to be satisfactory. Customer Satisfaction We provide our customers prompt, friendly and efficient service by keeping table-to-wait staff ratios low and staffing each operating unit with an experienced management team to ensure attentive customer service and consistently high food quality as well as providing an excellent room and gaming experience. Through the use of comment cards, secret shoppers, a toll-free telephone number, and a web-based customer response site, senior management receives valuable feedback from customers and demonstrates a continuing interest in customer satisfaction by responding promptly. Purchasing We strive to obtain consistent, quality items at competitive prices from reliable sources. We continually search for and test various product sizes, species, and origins, in order to serve the highest quality products possible and to be responsive to changing customer tastes. In order to maximize operating efficiencies and to provide the freshest ingredients for our food products, while obtaining the lowest possible prices for the required quality, each restaurant’s management team determines the daily quantities of food items needed and orders such quantities from our primary distributors and major suppliers at prices negotiated primarily by our corporate office. We emphasize availability of the items on our menu, and if an item is in short supply, restaurant level management is expected to procure the item immediately. We use many suppliers and obtain our seafood products from global sources in order to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality food and supplies at competitive prices. While the supply of certain seafood species is volatile, we believe that we have the ability to identify alternative seafood products and to adjust our menus as required. We routinely make bulk purchases of seafood products and retail goods for distribution to our restaurants to take advantage of buying opportunities, leverage our buying power, and hedge against price and supply fluctuations. As we continue to grow, we believe that our ability to improve our purchasing and distribution efficiencies will be enhanced. We believe that our essential food products and retail goods are available, or can be made available upon relatively short notice, from alternative qualified suppliers and distributors. We primarily use one national distributor in order to achieve certain cost efficiencies, although such services are available from alternative qualified distributors. We have not experienced any significant delays in receiving our food and beverage products, restaurant supplies or equipment. 10 Table of Contents Advertising and Marketing We employ a marketing strategy to attract new customers, to increase the frequency of visits by existing customers, and to establish a high level of name recognition through television and radio commercials, billboards, travel and hospitality magazines, print advertising and newspaper drops. Our advertising expenditures for 2008 were approximately 1.1% of revenues from continuing operations. We expect to cross market our restaurant, hospitality and gaming locations to leverage our advertising spend. We anticipate future advertising and marketing expenses to remain moderate. Service Marks Landry’s, Rainforest Cafe, Chart House, Charley’s Crab, Saltgrass, T-Rex Cafe and Golden Nugget are each registered as a federal service mark on the Principal Register of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Crab House is a registered design mark. We pursue registration of our important service marks and trademarks and vigorously oppose any infringement upon them. Competition The restaurant, hospitality and entertainment industries are intensely competitive with respect to price, service, the type and quality of product offered, location and other factors. We compete with both locally owned facilities, as well as national and regional chains, some of which may be better established in our existing and future markets. Many of these competitors have a longer history of operations with substantially greater financial resources. We also compete with other restaurant, hospitality and gaming, and retail establishments for real estate sites, personnel and acquisition opportunities. Changes in customer tastes, economic conditions, demographic trends and the location, number of, and type of food and amenities served by competing businesses could affect our business as could a shortage of experienced management and hourly employees. We believe our business units enjoy a high level of repeat business and customer loyalty due to high food quality, good perceived price-value relationship, comfortable atmosphere, and friendly efficient service. Rainforest International License Agreements Rainforest Cafe has entered into exclusive license arrangements relating to the operations and development of Rainforest Cafes in several foreign jurisdictions. There are nine international units. We have signed agreements for four additional units in the Middle East over the next four years. We own various equity interests in several of the international locations, which were included when we acquired Rainforest Cafe in 2000. We do not anticipate revenues from international franchises to be significant. Environmental Matters Our business is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. To date, neither our restaurants nor our facilities have been the subject of any material environmental matters. Information as to Classes of Similar Products or Services We operate in only two reportable segments: restaurant and hospitality and gaming operations. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business and this offering. You should take these risks into account in evaluating us and in deciding whether to purchase the notes offered hereby. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risks. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties together with the other information contained in this offering circular. If any of such risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed substantially and could differ materially from the plans and other forward-looking statements included in the sections titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business” and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business The restaurant, hospitality and gaming industries are particularly affected by trends and fluctuations in demand and are highly competitive. If we are unable to successfully surmount these challenges, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Restaurant Industry The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and is affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national, regional, and local economic conditions and demographic trends. The performance of individual restaurants may be affected by factors such as: • traffic patterns, • demographic considerations, • the amounts spent on, and the effectiveness of, our marketing efforts, • weather conditions, and • the type, number, and location of competing restaurants. We have many well established competitors with greater financial resources and longer histories of operation than ours, including competitors already established in regions where we may expand, as well as competitors planning to expand in the same regions. We face significant competition from mid-priced, full-service, casual dining restaurants offering seafood and other types and varieties of cuisine. Our competitors include national, regional, and local chains as well as local owner-operated restaurants. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for restaurant sites. Gaming Industry The United States gaming industry is intensely competitive and features many participants, including many world class destination resorts with greater name recognition and different attractions, amenities and entertainment options than our facilities. In a broader sense, gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities. Our competitors have more gaming industry experience, and many are larger and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources. Our competitors include multinational corporations that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets. We face ongoing competition as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants and the entrance of new gaming participants. Certain states have recently legalized, and several other 12 Table of Contents states are currently considering legalizing, casino gaming. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Indian reservations would increase competition and could adversely affect our gaming operations. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, a worsening economy and any increases in energy and fuel prices, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase, our guests may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out or may choose more inexpensive restaurants when dining outside the home. The gaming activities we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities may decline during economic downturns, during which consumers generally have less disposable income. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in our restaurant, hospitality and gaming operations, as consumers spend less in anticipation of a potential prolonged economic downturn. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to offset inflation through menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Current difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued in 2008 and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarter of 2008. The volatility and disruption in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence, declines in consumer spending, and the risks of increased inflation and unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a severe recession, which could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products and, as a result, lead to declining revenues and profit margins. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will persist, whether they will deteriorate further, and the extent to which our operations will be adversely affected. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in single geographic areas, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by regional events. Many of our existing restaurants are concentrated in the southern half of the United States. This concentration in a particular region could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region and other geographic areas into which we may expand. Also, given our present geographic concentration, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenues than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. In addition, as many of our existing restaurants are in the Gulf Coast area from Texas to Florida, we are particularly susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other severe weather conditions. For example, on September 13, 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing considerable damage to the cities of Galveston, Kemah and Houston, Texas and surrounding areas. Several of our restaurants in Galveston and Kemah sustained significant damage, as did the amusement rides, the boardwalk itself and some infrastructure at the Kemah Boardwalk. The Kemah and Galveston 13 Table of Contents properties had been a significant driver of our overall performance in 2008. The damage to the Kemah and Galveston properties may adversely affect both our business and near- and long-term prospects. Widespread power outages led to the closure of 31 Houston area restaurants until power was restored. All Houston, Galveston and Kemah restaurants have reopened. While we maintain property and business interruption insurance, we carry large deductibles, and there can be no assurance that if a severe hurricane or other natural disaster should affect our geographical areas of operations, we would be able to maintain our current level of operations or profitability, or that property and business interruption insurance would adequately reimburse us for our losses. Moreover, in response to continued high insurance costs for our property and casualty coverage due to our large concentration of coastal properties, we significantly reduced our aggregate insurance policy limits and purchased individual windstorm policies for the majority of our operating units located along the Texas gulf coast. There is no assurance that we will have adequate insurance coverage to recover losses that may result from a catastrophic event. Our gaming activities rely heavily on the Nevada gaming market, and changes adversely impacting that market could have a material adverse effect on our gaming business. The Golden Nugget properties are both located in Nevada and, as a result, our gaming business is subject to greater risks than a more diversified gaming company. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks related to local economic and competitive conditions, changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) and natural and other disasters. Any economic downturn in Nevada or any terrorist activities or disasters in or around Nevada could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Nevada gaming industry revenues have declined significantly in 2008, and there can be no assurance that gaming industry revenues will not continue to significantly decline. We also draw a substantial number of customers from other geographic areas, including southern California, Hawaii and Texas. A recession or downturn in any region constituting a significant source of our customers could result in fewer customers visiting, or customers spending less at, the Golden Nugget properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity restraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changes in food and other costs, or obtain a seafood supply in sufficient quality and quantity, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, employee benefits, and similar costs over which we have limited or no control. Specifically, our dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh seafood and produce subjects us to the risk of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions that could adversely affect the availability and cost of such items. Our business may also be affected by inflation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and avoid any adverse effect on our profitability from increasing costs. In the past, certain types of seafood have experienced fluctuations in availability. In addition, some types of seafood have been subject to adverse publicity due to certain levels of contamination at their source or a perceived scarcity in supply, which can adversely affect both supply and market demand. We can make no assurances that in the future either seafood contamination or inadequate supplies of seafood might not have a significant and materially adverse effect on our operating results. 14 Table of Contents Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or harm our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including regional operational managers and regional chefs, restaurant general managers, executive chefs and casino employees, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. Qualified individuals that we need to fill these positions are in short supply and competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. If our labor costs increase, our results of operations will be negatively affected. We use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may adversely affect our results of operations. We use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Any shortage or substantial increases in the cost of electricity and natural gas in the United States will increase our cost of operations, which would negatively affect our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy price increases, but this impact could be significant. In addition, higher energy and gasoline prices affecting our customers may increase their cost of travel to our hotel-casinos and result in reduced visits to our properties and a reduction in our revenues. The cost of compliance with the significant governmental regulation to which we are subject or our failure to comply with such regulation could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive state and local government regulation relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages and to sanitation, public health, fire and building codes. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply for and obtain from state authorities a license or permit to sell alcohol on the premises. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations affect various aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. In certain states, we may be subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from the establishment which wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our comprehensive general liability insurance. Our operations may be impacted by changes in federal and state taxes and other federal and state governmental policies which include many possible factors such as (i) the level of minimum wages, (ii) the deductibility of business and entertainment expenses, (iii) levels of disposable income and unemployment and (iv) national and regional economic growth. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required licensing or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant. The suspension of or inability to renew a license could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant, and the inability to retain or renew such licenses would adversely affect the operations of such restaurant. Our operations are also subject to requirements of local governmental entities with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors which could delay or prevent the development of new restaurants in particular locations. At the federal and state levels, there are from time to time various proposals and initiatives under consideration to further regulate various aspects of our business and employment regulations. These and other initiatives could adversely affect us as well as the restaurant industry in general. In addition, seafood is harvested on a world-wide basis and, on occasion, imported seafood is subject to federally imposed import duties. We conduct licensed gaming operations in Nevada, and various regulatory authorities, including the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission, require us to hold various licenses and 15 Table of Contents registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals to engage in gaming operations and to meet requirements of suitability. These gaming authorities also control approval of ownership interests in gaming operations. These gaming authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming licenses, registrations, findings of suitability or the approval of any of our ownership interests in any of the licensed gaming operations conducted in Nevada, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, for any cause they may deem reasonable. If we violate gaming laws or regulations that are applicable to us, we may have to pay substantial fines or forfeit assets. If, in the future, we operate or have an ownership interest in casino gaming facilities located outside of Nevada, we also will be subject to the gaming laws and regulations of those other jurisdictions. If additional gaming regulations are adopted or existing ones are modified in Nevada, those regulations could impose significant restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the federal and Nevada state and local legislatures that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our business. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. If there is a material increase in federal, state or local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our officers, directors and key employees are required to be licensed or found suitable by gaming authorities and the loss of, or inability to obtain, any licenses or findings of suitability may have a material adverse effect on us. Our officers, directors and key employees are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in the State of Nevada, Clark County, Nevada and the City of Las Vegas and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If any of these gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file the appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, and, as a result, our results of operations for any given quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our highest earnings have occurred in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, as our revenues in most of our restaurants have typically been higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. As a result, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings and their respective pre-opening costs. Our international operations subject us to certain external business risks that do not apply to our domestic operations. Rainforest Cafe has license arrangements relating to the operations and development of Rainforest Cafes in several foreign jurisdictions. These agreements include a per unit development fee and/or restaurant royalties ranging from 3% to 6.9% of revenues. There are nine international units; one is owned outright, and the rest are franchises. We own various equity interests in several of the international franchise locations. Our international operations are subject to certain external business risks such as exchange rate fluctuations, import and export restrictions and tariffs, litigation in foreign jurisdictions, cultural differences, increased competition as a result of subsidies to local companies, increased expenses from inflation, political instability and the significant weakening of a local economy in which a foreign unit is located. In addition, it may be more difficult to register and protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could reduce our ability to capitalize on our brand names, which could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Landry’s, Rainforest Cafe, Chart House, Charley’s Crab, Saltgrass, T-Rex Cafe and Golden Nugget are each registered as a federal service mark on the Principal Register of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Crab House is a registered design mark. There is no assurance that any of our rights in any of our intellectual property will be enforceable, even if registered, against any prior users of similar intellectual property or against any of our competitors who seek to utilize similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. The failure to enforce or the unenforceability of any of our intellectual property rights could have the effect of reducing our ability to capitalize on our efforts to establish brand equity. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation, the cost or adverse results of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a multi-unit business and may from time to time be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Negative publicity may also result from actual or alleged violations of “dram shop” laws which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated party who then causes injury to himself or to a third party. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. A significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Unfavorable publicity resulting from these claims relating to a limited number of our restaurants or only relating to a single restaurant could adversely affect the public perception of all our restaurants within that particular brand. Adverse publicly and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material affect on our financial condition. In connection with certain of our discontinued operations, we remain the guarantor or assignor under a number of leased locations. In the event of future defaults under any of such leased locations we may be responsible for significant damages to landlords which may materially affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Health concerns relating to the consumption of seafood, beef and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of seafood, beef or chicken. In addition, negative publicity concerning food quality or possible illness and injury resulting from the consumption of certain types of food, such as negative publicity concerning the levels of mercury or other carcinogens in certain types of seafood, e-coli, salmonella, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to food products served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning the food products we serve at any of our restaurants may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our operational controls and employee training will be effective in preventing food-borne illnesses, such as hepatitis A, and other food safety issues that may affect our restaurants. Food-borne illness incidents could be caused by food suppliers and transporters and, therefore, could be outside of our control. Any publicity relating to health concerns or the perceived or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues attributed to one or more of our restaurants could result in a significant 17 Table of Contents decrease in guest traffic in all of our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face the risk of litigation in connection with any outbreak of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues at any of our restaurants. If a claim is successful, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or losses and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we suffer losses, liabilities or loss of income in excess of our insurance coverage or if our insurance does not cover such loss, liability or loss of income, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Restaurant companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. We are subject to a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of our business brought by or on behalf of our customers or employees, including personal injury claims, contract claims, and employment-related claims. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including collective and class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. We are currently defending purported collective action lawsuits alleging violations, among other things, of minimum wage and overtime provisions of federal and state labor laws. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations (especially if there is no insurance coverage), and adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business. We offer no assurance that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Rising interest rates would increase our borrowing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently have, and may incur, additional indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to access capital markets when necessary. We may find it necessary in the future to issue additional debt or equity to support ongoing operations, to undertake capital expenditures, or to undertake acquisitions or other business combination transactions. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business. These market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations, including the notes when they become due, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to further reevaluate our ratings. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. In addition, the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our amended and restated senior secured credit facility will contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our inability to raise financing to support ongoing operations or to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions could limit our growth and may have a material adverse effect on us. 18 Table of Contents The capital costs of our specialty and gaming divisions are extremely high. As a result, if any of these projects do not perform as expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In connection with our specialty and gaming divisions, we incur significant capital expenditures. Currently we are constructing a new hotel tower at the Golden Nugget—Las Vegas. The project is expected to continue through 2009 and is estimated to cost approximately $160.0 million. As a result, the failure of one or more of these projects could have a significant affect on our financial condition and operations. The loss of Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business and development. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on Tilman J. Fertitta, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Fertitta’s services could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there can be no assurance that an adequate replacement could be found for Mr. Fertitta in the event of his unavailability. There are inherent limitations in all control systems that may result in undetected errors. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, errors may not be detected. Tilman J. Fertitta is a Control Shareholder. Tilman J. Fertitta, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer controls a majority of the Company’s common stock and the Company’s voting power. As a result, Mr. Fertitta is able to control the election of the Company’s Board of Directors and controls the vote on virtually all matters which might be submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Tilman J. Fertitta’s ownership of over 50% of our common stock could adversely affect our share price and make future equity offerings more difficult. Tilman J. Fertitta’s ownership of over 50% of our common stock has reduced the number of shares held by unaffiliated stockholders and, as a result, our common stock may be more susceptible to market volatility. This ownership could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and limit our ability to raise capital through equity securities offerings due to the lower number of institutional investors a reduced public float generally attracts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 