ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Shareholders or investors considering the purchase of shares of our common stock should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. For example, the following conditions could all affect our results: • changes in our product sales and customer mix; • constraints in our manufacturing and assembling operations; • shortages or increases in the prices of raw materials and components; • changes in pricing policy by us or our competitors; • a slowdown in the growth of the networking market; • seasonality; • timing of expenditures; and • economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia. Our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received. In addition, significant portions of our expenses are relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based primarily on sales forecasts. Therefore, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, the impact on net income may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the net sales shortfall. Other factors contributing to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results include: • changes in the demand for our products; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new versions of our products; • the introduction and acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the effects of filling the distribution channels following introductions of new products and product enhancements; • potential delays in the availability of announced or anticipated products; • the mix of product and service revenue, • the commencement or conclusion of significant development contracts; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • the timing of significant marketing and sales promotions. Based on the foregoing, we believe that quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be viewed as indications of future performance. 10 We have a history of losses and may not be able to sustain profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of $19.8 million. Our development and marketing of current and new products will continue to require substantial expenditures. We incurred $591,000 of losses as recently as 2001 due to a slowdown in demand for our products due in part to industry-wide adverse economic conditions. We were able to recover and since then we have eighteen straight quarters of operating profits. There can be no assurance that growth in net sales will be achieved or profitability sustained in future years. Adoption of Share-Based Payments may have a significant effect on our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) “Share Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”), which requires the expensing of employee stock options at fair value, rather than using the intrinsic method of valuing share-base payment transactions allowed under APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”. These costs will be recognized over the period during which an employee provides service in exchange for the award. In April 2005, the SEC amended the compliance dates for SFAS No. 123R to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, or effectively beginning on January 1, 2006 for us. We will apply SFAS 123R using the “modified prospective” method as allowed by SFAS No. 123R, under which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date of adoption (a) based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date of adoption and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of adoption that remain unvested on the date of adoption. We are evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R and SAB 107 and expect that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on Castelle’s consolidated results of operations and earnings per share beginning in the first quarter of 2006. Please refer to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements section below for more details. Substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of fax server products and related services, and a decline in demand for those products and related services would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We derived substantially all of our revenue from the sale of fax server products and related services in 2005. We expect that our current products and related services will continue to account for most of our sales in the near future. A decline in demand for our fax server products as a result of competition, technological change, shortages of components or other factors, or a delay in the development and market acceptance of new features and products, would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We sell our products through a limited number of distributors, and any deterioration in our relationship with those distributors would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We sell our products primarily through a two-tier domestic and international distribution network. Our distributors sell our products to VARs, e-commerce vendors and other resellers. The distribution of personal computers and networking products has been characterized by rapid change, including consolidations due to the financial difficulties of distributors and the emergence of alternative distribution channels. An increasing number of companies are competing for access to these channels. Our distributors typically represent other products that are complementary to, or compete with, our products. Our distributors are not contractually committed to future purchases of our products and could discontinue carrying our products at any time for any reason. In addition, because we are dependent on a small number of distributors for a significant portion of the sales of our products, the loss of any of our major distributors or their inability to satisfy their payment obligations to us could have a significant adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a stock rotation policy with certain of our distributors that allows them to return marketable inventory against offsetting orders. If we reduce our prices, we credit certain distributors for the difference between the purchase price of products remaining in their inventory and our reduced price for these products. In addition, inventory levels of our products held by distributors could become excessive due to industry conditions or the actions of competitors, resulting in product returns and inventory write-downs. 11 The market for our products is affected by rapidly changing technology and if we fail to predict and respond to customers’ changing needs, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. The market for our products is affected by rapidly changing networking technology, evolving industry standards and the emergence of the Internet and other new communication technologies. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to identify, develop, manufacture and introduce new products which • conform to or support emerging network telecommunications standards; • are compatible with a growing array of computer and peripheral devices; • support popular computer and network operating systems and applications; • meet a wide range of evolving user needs; and • achieve market acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses associated with the introduction and promotion of new products. There can be no assurance that the expenses incurred will not exceed research and development cost estimates or that new products will achieve market acceptance and generate sales sufficient to offset development costs. In order to develop new products successfully, we are dependent upon timely access to information about new technological developments and standards. There can be no assurance that we will have such access or will be able to develop new products successfully and respond effectively to technological change or new product announcements by others. Complex products such as those offered by us may contain undetected or unresolved hardware defects or software errors when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective components could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. We have in the past discovered hardware defects and software errors in certain of our new products and enhancements after their introduction. Replacement of discontinued components used in our products could lead to further defects and errors. There can be no assurance that despite testing by us and by third-party test sites, errors and defects will not be found in future releases of our products, which would result in adverse product reviews and negatively affect market acceptance of these products. The introduction of new or enhanced products requires us to manage the transition from the older products to the new or enhanced products or versions, both internally and for customers. We must manage new product introductions so as to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demands. We have from time to time experienced delays in the shipment of new products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully manage future product transitions. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, product development and operational personnel. Our success will depend, to a large extent, upon our ability to retain and continue to attract highly skilled personnel in management, marketing, product development and operations. Competition for employees in the computer and electronics industries is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain enough qualified employees. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain and continue to attract key employees, many of whom have been granted stock options. Our inability to retain and attract key employees could have a material adverse effect on our product development, business, operating results and financial condition. We do not carry key person life insurance with respect to any of our personnel. The markets for our products are highly competitive and may become more competitive in the future. 12 The network enhancement products and computer software markets are highly competitive, and we believe that competition will intensify in the future. The competition is characterized by rapid change and improvements in technology along with constant pressure to reduce the prices of products. We currently compete principally in the market for network fax servers. Both direct and indirect competition could adversely affect our business and operating results through pricing pressure, loss of market share and other factors. Any material reduction in the average selling prices of our products would adversely affect gross margins. There can be no assurance we will be able to maintain the current average selling prices of our products or the related gross margins. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products include: • product functionality; • performance; • quality; • reliability; • ease of use; • quality of customer training and support; • name recognition; • price; and • compatibility and conformance with industry standards and changing operating system environments. Several of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we. We also experience competition from a number of other software, hardware and service companies. In addition to our current competitors, we may face substantial competition from new entrants into the network enhancement market, including established and emerging computer, computer peripheral, communications and software companies. In the fax server market we compete with companies such as Captaris Inc., Omtool, Ltd. and Esker Software. There can be no assurance that competitors will not introduce products incorporating technology more advanced than the technology used by us in our products. In addition, certain competing methods of communications such as the Internet or electronic mail could adversely affect the market for fax products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on sales in foreign markets, and political or economic changes in these markets could affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales to customers located outside the United States accounted for approximately 20%, 18% and 19% of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We sell our products in approximately 40 foreign countries through approximately 50 international distributors. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our product revenues and that we will be subject to the normal risks of international sales, such as export laws, currency fluctuations, longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collections and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties resulting from changes in foreign laws relating to the export of our products in the future. In addition, because we primarily invoice foreign sales in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates could affect demand for our products by causing prices to be out of line with products priced in the local currency. Additionally, any such difficulties would have a material adverse effect on our international sales and a resulting material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may experience fluctuations in European sales on a quarterly basis because European sales may be weaker during the third quarter than the second quarter due to extended holiday shutdowns in July and August. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the level of international sales in the future. Any fluctuations in international sales will significantly affect our operating results and financial condition. The introduction of new products may reduce the demand for our existing products and increase returns of existing products. From time to time, we may announce new products, product versions, capabilities or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of existing products. The release of a new product or product version may result in the write-down of products in inventory if this inventory becomes obsolete. We have in the 13 past experienced increased returns of a particular product version following the announcement of a planned release of a new version of that product. There can be no assurance that product returns will not exceed our allowance for these returns in the future and will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to obtain components of our products from third-party suppliers and subcontractors, our business could suffer. Our products require components procured from third-party suppliers. Some of these components are available only from a single source or from limited sources. In addition, we subcontract a substantial portion of our manufacturing to third parties, and there can be no assurance that these subcontractors will be able to support our manufacturing requirements. We purchase components on a purchase order basis, and generally have no long-term contracts for these components. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of high-quality components from our current sources, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments. From time to time, component manufacturers announce the end of life of certain of their products and may or may not have replacement products. If we are unable to secure enough inventories of the end-of-life components or their replacements, we might not be able to deliver our products to our customers, which could adversely affect our revenue and net income. On the other hand, if we have over purchased the end-of-life components, resulting in excessive inventory after we have developed replacement products, we may be exposed to inventory write-offs. Furthermore, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components or our inability to lower component or sub-assembly prices in response to competitive price reductions could adversely affect our gross margin. We depend on proprietary technology, and inability to develop and protect this technology or license it from third parties could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends to a certain extent upon our technological expertise and proprietary software technology. We rely upon a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our technologies. Despite the precautions taken by us, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries either do not protect our proprietary rights or offer only limited protection. Given the rapid evolution of technology and uncertainties in intellectual property law in the United States and internationally, there can be no assurance that our current or future products will not be subject to third-party claims of infringement. Any litigation to determine the validity of any third-party claims could result in significant expense and divert the efforts our technical and management personnel, whether or not any litigation is determined in favor of us. In the event of an adverse result in litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in this development or that any such licenses would be available on commercially reasonable terms. We also rely on technology licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that these licenses will continue to be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any impairment or termination of our relationship with third-party licensors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our precautions will be adequate to deter misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary technologies. We have received, and may receive in the future, communications asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties or seeking indemnification against the alleged infringement. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us with respect to current or future products or that any assertion will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, can be time consuming and expensive to defend. There can be no assurance that any intellectual property litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, and we have had difficulty satisfying the listing criteria to avoid the delisting of our common stock Our common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market since April 1999. In order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, we must maintain total assets, capital and public float at specified 14 levels, and our common stock generally must maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. If we fail to maintain the standards necessary to be quoted on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, our common stock could become subject to delisting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the $1.00 minimum bid price per share of our common stock and thus maintain our listing on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. If our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter market in what is commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” If this occurs, a shareholder will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Lack of any active trading market would have an adverse effect on a shareholder’s ability to liquidate an investment in our common stock easily and quickly at a reasonable price. It might also contribute to volatility in the market price of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain desired financing on acceptable terms could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has been volatile, and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our management believes past fluctuations may have been caused by the factors identified above, and that these factors may continue to affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of the common stock of us and other high technology companies, often for reasons unrelated to operating performance. We anticipate that prices for our common stock may continue to be volatile. Future stock price volatility may result in the initiation of securities litigation against us, which may divert substantial management and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may require additional capital in the future, and may be unable to obtain this capital at all or on commercially reasonable terms. The development and marketing of products requires significant amounts of capital. If we need additional capital resources, we may be required to sell additional equity or debt securities, secure additional lines of credit or obtain other third party financing. The timing and amount of such capital requirements cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our existing and new products and changes in technology in the networking industry. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms when needed, if at all. Failure to raise such additional financing, if needed, may result in our inability to achieve our long-term business objectives. The issuance of equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional capital would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Government regulation could increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our gross margin. Certain aspects of the networking industry in which we compete are regulated both in the United States and in foreign countries. Imposition of public carrier tariffs, taxation of telecommunications services and the necessity of incurring substantial costs and expenditure of managerial resources to obtain regulatory approvals, or the inability to obtain regulatory approvals within a reasonable period of time, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. This is particularly true in foreign countries where telecommunications standards differ from those in the United States. Our products must comply with a variety of equipment, interface and installation standards promulgated by communications regulatory authorities in different countries. Changes in government policies, regulations and interface standards could require the redesign of products and result in product shipment delays which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist activity in the United States and the military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) could significantly impact our revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on 15 September 11, 2001 have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The long-term effects on our business of the September 11, 2001 attacks and the ensuing war on terror are unknown. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts, acts of war or hostility, including the United States’ activities in Iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in ways that cannot presently be predicted. The costs of compliance with recent developments in corporate governance regulation may affect our business, operating results and financial condition in ways that presently cannot be predicted further. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business could suffer. Beginning with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a significant number of new corporate governance requirements have been adopted or proposed through legislation and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq National Stock Market. We may not be successful in complying with these requirements at all times in the future. Additionally, we expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and accounting costs, and to make some activities more difficult, such as stockholder approval of new stock option plans. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with compliance with Section 404 of that law regarding internal controls over financial reporting. We expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These developments could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result, or the effect that these increased costs may have on our operating results. We have identified and may from time to time identify a number of deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures. In connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm, Grant Thornton LLP, determined that we had internal control deficiencies that constituted a “material weakness.” Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement enhancements on a timely basis in order to prevent a failure of our internal controls or enable us to furnish future unqualified certifications. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation, business and stock price. Any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. Voting control by officers, directors and affiliates may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. At February 28, 2006, our officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 24% of the outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, together they had the ability to significantly influence the election of our directors and other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Provisions in our charter documents might deter a company from acquiring us, which could inhibit your ability to receive an acquisition premium for your shares. Our Board of Directors has authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, including voting rights, of these shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, thereby delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Furthermore, such preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to the common stock, and as a result, the issuance thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 