D. Risk Factors. An investment in our ADSs involves significant risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment in our ADSs. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such case, the market price of our ADSs could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the petroleum and petrochemical market and by the volatility of prices of crude oil and petrochemical products. Most of our revenues are attributable to the sale of refined oil and petrochemical products, which have historically been cyclical and sensitive to the availability and price of raw materials and general economic conditions. Markets for many of our products are sensitive to changes in industry capacity and output levels, changes in regional and global economic conditions, the price and availability of substitute products and changes in consumer demand, which from time to time have had a significant impact on our product prices in the regional and global markets. Due to the decrease in tariff charges, the removal of other restrictions on importation and the Chinese government gradual relaxation of its control of the allocation of products and pricing, many of our products have become increasingly vulnerable to the cyclical nature of regional and global petroleum and petrochemical markets, which may adversely affect our operations. We consume large amounts of crude oil to manufacture our products of which more than 90% is typically imported. In 2013, crude oil costs accounted for RMB71.59 billion, or 69.36% of our annual cost of sales. As a result, changes in crude oil prices can affect our profitability. In recent years, due to various reasons, the price of crude oil has fluctuated significantly. We cannot rule out the possibility of the occurrence of certain global emergencies which might disrupt our crude oil supply. We expect that the volatility and uncertainty of the prices of crude oil and petrochemical products will continue, and that increasing crude oil prices and declines in prices of petrochemical products may adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial condition. 3 Table of Contents Some of our major products are subject to government price controls, and we are not able to pass on all cost increases from rising crude oil prices through higher product prices. We consume large amounts of crude oil to manufacture our products of which more than 90% is typically imported. We attempt to mitigate the effect of increased costs due to rising crude oil prices. However, our ability to pass on these increased costs to our customers is dependent on market conditions and government regulations. Given that the increase of the sales prices of our products may lag behind the increase of crude oil costs, we may fail to completely cover the increased costs by increasing our sales prices, particularly where government regulations restrict the prices of certain of our fuel products. In particular, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and liquefied petroleum gas are subject to government price controls at present. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, approximately 36.70%, 40.09% and 49.11% of our net sales were from such products subject to price controls. Although the current price-setting mechanism for refined petroleum products in China allows the Chinese government to adjust price in the PRC market when the average international crude oil price fluctuates beyond certain levels within a certain time period (see Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Product Pricing), the Chinese government still retains discretion as to whether or when to adjust the prices of the refined oil products. The Chinese government generally exercises certain price control over refined oil products once international crude oil prices experience a sustained rise or become significantly volatile. For instance, some of our fuel products are required to be sold to designated distributors (such as the subsidiaries of Sinopec Corp.). Because we cannot freely sell our fuel products to take advantage of opportunities for higher prices, we may not be able to fully cover increases in crude oil prices by increasing the sale prices of our products, which has had and will possibly continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our development and operation plans have significant capital expenditure and financing requirements, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The petrochemical business is a capital intensive business. Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues, net income and cash flows depends upon continued capital spending. Our current business strategy contemplates capital expenditure for 2014 of approximately RMB2 billion (U.S.$330 million), which will be provided through financing activities and use of our own capital. Our actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these planned amounts, subject to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, investments and other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance as to whether, or at what cost, our capital projects will be completed or the success of these projects if completed. As of March 31, 2014, we had an aggregate outstanding indebtedness of approximately RMB7.729 billion (U.S.$1.277 billion). Most of our borrowings are with state-controlled banks in China and structured as short term debt obligations with payment due in one year or less. These banks have generally been willing to provide new short term loans while we pay off existing loans. Sinopec Corp., our controlling shareholder, did not provide any guarantee or credit support for our debt for the year ended December 31, 2013 and for the three-month period ended March 31, 2014. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future and our ability to make timely repayments of our debt obligations are subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; the condition of the economy in China and the condition of markets for our products; the cost of financing and the condition of financial markets; the issuance of relevant government approvals and other project risks associated with the development of infrastructure in China; and the continuing willingness of banks to provide new loans as we pay down existing debt. While we anticipate that we will rely less on borrowings to finance capital expenditures and operations as the global economic outlook continues to improve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we fail to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans. We could face increasing competition. Our principal market, Eastern China, which is comprised of Shanghai, Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui, Zhejiang, Jiangxi and Fujian, has enjoyed stronger economic growth and a higher demand for petrochemical products than other regions of China. As a result, we believe that our competitors will try to expand their sales and build up their distribution networks in our principal market. We believe this will have an adverse impact on the production and sale of our major products. Moreover, Chinese private enterprises have gradually overcome technological and funding barriers to extend their business from the downstream processing sector to the upstream petrochemical field. These enterprises have advantages in many areas such as flexibility in operation costs, preferential policy treatments and regional presence, and may use these advantages to compete with us in our target market. 4 Table of Contents We are controlled by Sinopec Corp., whose interests may not be aligned with yours. As of March 31, 2014, Sinopec Corp. owned 50.56% of our shares. Accordingly, it has voting and management control over us, and its interests may be different from the interests of our other shareholders. Subject to our Articles of Association and applicable laws and regulations, Sinopec Corp. will be in a position to cause us to declare dividends, determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval or effect corporate transactions without the approval of the holders of the H shares and ADSs. Any such increase in our dividend payout would reduce funds available for reinvestment in our business and any such actions or transactions could adversely affect us or our minority shareholders. Sinopec Corp. may also experience changes in its own business strategy and policies. Although we are not currently aware of any specific changes, they could, in turn, lead Sinopec Corp. to change its policies or practices toward us in ways that we cannot predict, with corresponding unpredictable consequences for our business. Additionally, Sinopec Corp. may leverage its controlling shareholder position to influence our decisions with regard to the manufacturing and operation, allocation of financial resources and appointment and removal of senior management members, which could adversely affect us or our minority shareholders. We have also engaged from time to time and will continue to engage in a variety of transactions with Sinopec Corp., Sinopec Group, the controlling company of Sinopec Corp., and their various subsidiaries or affiliates which provide a number of services to us, including the supply of raw materials, product distribution and sales agency, project design and installment service, petrochemical industry related insurance and financial services. We also sell oil and petrochemical products to Sinopec Corp. and its affiliates. Our transactions with these companies are governed by a Mutual Product Supply and Sales Services Framework Agreement with Sinopec Corp. and a Comprehensive Services Framework Agreement with Sinopec Group, the terms of which were negotiated on an arm’s length basis. See Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – B. Related Party Transactions. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if Sinopec Corp. or Sinopec Group refuses to engage in such transactions or if it seeks to amend the contracts between the parties in a way adverse to us. In addition, Sinopec Corp. has interests in businesses which compete or are likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with our businesses. Because Sinopec Corp. is our controlling shareholder and its interests may conflict with our own interests, Sinopec Corp. may take actions that favor itself over our interests. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. We are subject to extensive environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations permit: • the imposition of fees and penalties for the discharge of waste substances; • the levy of payments and fines for damages for environmental offenses; and • the government to close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders and require it to correct or stop operations causing environmental damage. Our production operations produce substantial amounts of waste materials (i.e., waste water, waste gas and waste residue). In addition, our production and operations require permits that are subject to renewal, modification and revocation. In February 2014, the Environmental Protection Bureau of Jinshan District imposed a fine of RMB80,000 on us because we commenced the operation of the environmental protection facility that supports the continuous polyester testing plant of the Polyester Fiber Research Institute under our Polyester Fiber Department without complying with the required inspection and acceptance procedures for the facility after we completed the upgrading of some of its equipment in 2006. See Item 4. Information of the Company – B. Business Overview – Environmental Protection. At present, we believe that our operations substantially comply with all applicable Chinese environmental laws and regulations as they have been previously interpreted and enforced. The Chinese government (including the local governments), however, has moved, and may move further, toward the adoption of more regulations and more stringent environmental standards. Chinese national or local authorities may also apply more rigorous enforcement of such regulations which would require us to incur additional expenditures on environmental matters. Our operations are exposed to risks relating to operating hazards and production safety and we have limited insurance coverage for resulting losses. Our operations involve the handling and storage of explosives and other hazardous articles. In addition, our operations involve the use of heavy machinery, which involves inherent risks that cannot be entirely eliminated through our preventive efforts. As a result, we may encounter fires, explosions and other unexpected incidents during our operations, which may cause personal injuries or death, property damage, environmental damage, interruption of operations and reputational damages to us. Each of such incidents could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents We maintain a package of insurance coverage plan through Sinopec Group on our property, facilities and inventory. In addition, we maintain insurance policies for such assets as the engineering construction projects and products in transit with third-party commercial insurance companies. We do not carry any third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than on our transportation vehicles. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the financial losses caused by operating hazards. Resulting losses required to be compensated or otherwise paid for by us due to such operating hazards that are not fully insured against may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be limited or adversely affected by government regulations. The Chinese central and local governments continue to exercise a certain degree of control over the petrochemical industry in China by, among other things: • mandating distribution channels for our fuel products; • setting the allocations and pricing of certain resources, products and services; • assessing taxes and fees payable; • setting import and export quotas and procedures; and • setting safety, environmental and quality standards. As a result, we may face significant constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. In the past, we have benefited from favorable regulatory policies that have, for example, reduced the competition we face from illegal imports of petroleum products. Existing policies that favor our industry may change in the future and our business could be adversely affected by any such changes. Our development plans may require regulatory approval. We are currently engaged in a number of construction and expansion projects. Most of our projects are subject to governmental review and approval. The timing and cost of completion of these projects will depend on numerous factors, including approvals from relevant government authorities and general economic conditions in China. While in general we attempt to obtain governmental approval as far in advance as practicable, we are unable to predict the timing and outcome of these governmental reviews and approvals. If any of our important projects required for our future growth are not approved, or not approved on a timely basis, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We face increasing foreign competition in our lines of business. China joined the WTO on December 11, 2001 and had committed to eliminate some tariff and non-tariff barriers to foreign competition in the domestic petrochemical industry that benefited us in the past. In particular, China: • has reduced tariffs on imported petrochemicals products that compete with ours; • increased levels of permitted foreign investment in the domestic petrochemicals industry, allowing foreign investors to own 100% of a domestic petrochemicals company from December 11, 2004; • has gradually relaxed restrictions on the import of crude oil by non-state-owned companies; • has granted foreign-owned companies the right to import petrochemical products; and • has permitted foreign-owned companies to distribute and market fuel products in both retail and wholesale markets in China. As a result of these measures, we face increasing competition from foreign companies and imports. In 2014, we expect the world economy to recover slowly and the growth in the petrochemical industry to remain sluggish. In addition, competition for our products has increased, as many overseas companies have switched their focus to sales in China. Furthermore, tariff reductions could reduce our profit margins or otherwise negatively impact our revenue from certain products, including a small number of significant products. The Chinese government may also reduce the tariffs imposed on production equipment that we may import in the future. Political and economic policies in China could affect our business in unpredictable ways. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; 6 Table of Contents • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. Before its adoption of reform and open-door policies beginning in 1978, China was primarily a planned economy. Since that time, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system, and has also begun reforming its government structure. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. Although the Chinese government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1980s have emphasized greater autonomy for state-owned or controlled enterprises, the development of private enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We expect that the Chinese government will continue these reforms, further reduce government intervention and rely more heavily on market mechanisms to allocate resources. Although we believe these reforms will have a positive effect on our overall long term development, we cannot predict whether changes to China’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our current or future business or results of operations. If the Chinese government changes current regulations that allow us to make payments in foreign currencies, we may be unable to obtain the foreign currency necessary for our business. The Renminbi currently is not a freely convertible currency. We receive most of our revenue in Renminbi. A portion of our Renminbi revenue must be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations. We have substantial requirements for foreign currencies, including: • debt service costs on foreign currency-denominated debt; • purchases of imported equipment; • payment of any cash dividends declared in respect of the H shares and the ADSs; and • import of crude oil and other materials. Under existing foreign exchange regulations in China, we may undertake current account foreign exchange transactions, including the payment of dividends, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by producing commercial documents evidencing the foreign exchange transactions, provided that they are processed through Chinese banks licensed to engage in foreign exchange transactions. The Chinese government has stated publicly that it intends to eventually make the Renminbi freely convertible. However, uncertainty exists as to whether the Chinese government may restrict access to foreign currency for current account transactions if foreign currency becomes scarce in China. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account (international revenues and expenditures that increase or decrease debt or equity, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations) continue to be subject to limitations and require the prior approval of the SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt financing, or to make capital expenditures in foreign currency. If the Chinese government restricts our ability to make payments in foreign currency, we may be unable to obtain the foreign currency necessary for our business. In that case, our business may be materially adversely affected, and we may default on our obligations. The change of currency policy and the fluctuation of Renminbi might adversely affect our business and operating results. The exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. Dollar or other foreign currencies might fluctuate and be affected by the change in Chinese political and economic conditions. In July 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of the Renminbi has fluctuated daily within a narrow band against the U.S. Dollar. Nevertheless, the Chinese government continues to receive significant international pressures to further liberalize its currency policy which could result in China adjusting its currency policy further. A small portion of our cash and cash equivalents is denominated in foreign currencies (including the U.S. Dollar). The appreciation in the value of Renminbi against foreign currencies (including the U.S. Dollar) may cause a decrease in the Renminbi value of our cash and cash equivalents that are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the appreciation of Renminbi may harm the exports of our downstream manufacturers, thus adversely affecting the market demand for our products. As most of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi, and most of our purchase of crude oil and some equipment and repayments of certain borrowings are made in foreign currencies, any depreciation of the Renminbi would increase our cost and adversely affect our capacity of making profits. In addition, any depreciation of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value of the dividends of our H shares and ADSs, which we declare in Renminbi and pay in foreign currencies. 7 Table of Contents Interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations is uncertain. The Chinese legal system is based on statutory law. Under this system, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority, but do not have the binding effect of precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. Because these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new or otherwise undeveloped and not all accessible to the public and because prior court decisions have little precedential value, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve greater uncertainty than in other jurisdictions. You may not enjoy shareholders’ protections that you would be entitled to in other jurisdictions. As most of our business is conducted in China, our operations are governed principally by the laws of China. Despite the continuing improvement of the PRC Company Law and Securities Law, Chinese legal provisions for the protection of shareholders’ rights and access to information are different from those applicable to companies formed in the United States, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and other developed countries or regions. You may not enjoy shareholders’ protections under Chinese law that you would be entitled to in other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Association require you to submit your disputes with us and other persons defined by our Articles of Association regarding the Company’s affairs to arbitration. You will have no legal right to a court proceeding with respect to such disputes. Our Articles of Association require holders of our H shares or ADSs having a claim against, or a dispute with, us, our directors, supervisors, executive officers or a holder of our domestic shares relating to any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by our Articles of Association, the Chinese Company Law or other relevant Chinese laws or regulations relating to our affairs, to submit such claim or dispute to arbitration with the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission or to the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center. Our Articles of Association further provide that any arbitration decisions with respect to such disputes or claims shall be final and binding on all parties. As a result, you will have no legal right to a court proceeding with respect to such disputes. Currently, United States financial regulatory and law enforcement agencies, including but not limited to the SEC, PCAOB, U.S. Department of Justice and NYSE, have limited or may have no ability to conduct investigations within the PRC concerning the Company, its officers, directors, auditors, market research services or other professional services or experts based in the PRC. The Company’s operations and assets are physically located in the PRC. The PRC has limited or no agreements in place to facilitate cooperation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Division of Enforcement and other U.S. regulatory agencies charged with protecting investors for investigations within its jurisdiction. This may result in U.S. financial regulators, including but not limited to the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) and the U.S. Department of Justice, having limited access to the Company’s books, records, testimony, on-site investigations of operations, subpoena power and other investigative actions, including those stemming from investor tips, complaints and referrals. Such limitations may result in the Company’s investors receiving less protection from U.S. regulators than investors in companies operating in other jurisdictions because the Company and its service providers, particularly its auditors, are subject to less scrutiny than companies and service providers that are subject to regular investigations and inspections by U.S. regulators. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the PCAOB and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issued the audit reports included in this 20-F, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of PRC authorities, and therefore, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. 8 Table of Contents Inspections of other firms located outside of China that the PCAOB has conducted inspection upon have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections and lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. The accounting firms have the ability to appeal and the four firms which are subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC have indicated that they will appeal. The sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the Ministry of Finance which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how these recent developments could affect the SEC’s final decision in the case against the five accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to find another registered public accounting firm in a timely manner to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Generally, if, for any taxable year, at least 75% of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to be a PFIC for our current taxable year. However, since PFIC status depends on the composition of our income and the composition and value of our assets from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are characterized as a PFIC, U.S. investors may suffer adverse tax consequences, including increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation – U.S. Taxation. We have in the past sourced a small portion of crude oil from Iran that may be targeted by economic sanctions under relevant U.S. laws, and if such activities are determined by the U.S. governmental authorities as sanctionable activities, we could be sanctioned or otherwise penalized. The United States has adopted a number of measures since 1996 that provide for the possible imposition of sanctions against non-U.S. companies engaged in certain activities in and with Iran in the energy and other sectors, including the Executive Orders 13622 (effective July 31, 2012), 13628 (effective October 9, 2012), and 13645 (effective July 1, 2013), the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“ITRSHRA”) enacted August 10, 2012 and the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act (“IFCA”) enacted January 2, 2013. The sanctionable activities include certain investments, the provision of goods, services, technology, or support that could contribute to the development of petroleum and petrochemical resources or the production of refined petroleum products in Iran, the exportation of refined petroleum products to Iran, the transportation of crude oil from Iran, or the engagement in a significant transaction for the purchase or acquisition of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran, and the engagement in transactions with certain Iranian specially designated nationals and blocked persons (“SDNs”) as identified and published by U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, the agency primarily responsible for administering U.S. sanctions and embargoes. 9 Table of Contents We have sourced a small portion of our crude oil from Iran in the past through Sinopec Corp., our current controlling shareholder, and independent third parties, and we may continue to purchase crude oil from Iran. In addition, Sinopec Corp. and Sinopec Group, the controlling shareholder of Sinopec Corp., have engaged in operations in or purchasing crude oil sourced from Iran and may continue to do so in the future. We have no control over the activities of Sinopec Group or Sinopec Corp. in connection with any activities that they may conduct in Iran. If our purchases of crude oil from Iran and transactions related thereto are determined to be sanctionable activities by the U.S. President and/or the relevant U.S. governmental authorities, we may be subject to five or more of the twelve sanctions options available under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (as amended) (“ISA”) and the ITRSHRA, which include restrictions on bank financing, outright blocking of the Company’s property within U.S. jurisdiction, under the control of U.S. persons anywhere in the world, and prohibition of U.S. persons from investing or purchasing a significant amount of equity or debt instruments of the Company. Similar sanctions may also be imposed under the Executive Orders cited above and the IFCA. In addition, many states in the United States have adopted legislation requiring state pension funds to divest themselves of securities in any company with active business operations in Iran. We cannot assure that we or any of our affiliates will not be sanctioned by the U.S. President and/or the relevant U.S. governmental authorities in light of the activities by us or our affiliates in Iran. The imposition of any such sanctions on us or our affiliates will have a negative impact on our business, reputation or stock price. In addition, purchase of crude oil by Sinopec Corp. subsidiaries that supply us with raw materials may from time to time be sourced from National Iranian Oil Company. This entity has been identified by the U.S. government as an SDN and sanctioned under various laws, including for assisting the government of Iran to avoid sanction and for engaging in activities related to nuclear proliferation. Under Executive Order 13645, the U.S. President can sanction non-U.S. companies that engage in transactions with SDNs such as the National Iranian Oil Company To the extent we indirectly (or directly) purchase raw materials from this entity, we risk potential U.S. government sanctions. Even absent any U.S. government sanctions, we risk adverse publicity in the world markets, which may impair our reputation and business. Sinopec Group, the controlling shareholder of Sinopec Corp. which is our current controlling shareholder, or its affiliates’ current or future activities in certain countries are the subject of economic sanctions under relevant U.S. laws and could result in negative media and investor attention to us and possible imposition of sanctions on Sinopec Group, which could materially and adversely affect our shareholders. Sinopec Group undertakes, from time to time and without our involvement, overseas investments and operations in the oil and gas industry, including the exploration and production of oil and gas, refining and Liquefied Natural Gas, or LNG, projects. Sinopec Group’s overseas asset portfolio includes oil and gas development projects in Iran, Sudan and Syria, countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes. We cannot predict the interpretation or implementation of government policy at the U.S. federal, state or local levels with respect to any current or future activities by Sinopec Group or its affiliates in countries or with individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. Similarly, we cannot predict whether U.S. sanctions will be further tightened, or the impact that such actions may have on Sinopec Group. It is possible that the United States could subject Sinopec Group to sanctions due to these activities. Certain U.S. state and local governments and colleges have restrictions on the investment of public funds or endowment funds, respectively, in companies that are members of corporate groups with activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. These investors may not wish to invest, and may divest their investment, in us because of our relationship with Sinopec Group and its investments and activities in those U.S. government sanctioned countries. It is possible that, as a result of activities by Sinopec Group or its affiliates in countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, we may be subject to negative media or investor attention, which may distract management, consume internal resources and affect investors’ perception of our company. Further, the ISA authorizes the imposition of sanctions on companies that engage in certain activities in and with Iran, especially in Iran’s energy sector. It is possible that Sinopec Group or its affiliates engage in activities that are targeted for sanction purposes by the ISA. If the U.S. President determines that Sinopec Group or one of its affiliates in fact engaged in the targeted activities, he would be required to impose on Sinopec Group or its affiliates at least five sanctions from among twelve sanctions options available under the ISA, which range from restrictions on U.S. exports or bank financing to outright blocking of Sinopec Group or its affiliate’s property within the U.S. or in the possession or control of U.S. persons anywhere in the world. In addition, the IFCA requires the U.S. President to block the property within U.S. jurisdiction or control of U.S. persons he determines, among other things, are engaged in certain transactions involving the energy, shipping or shipbuilding sectors of Iran or with certain SDNs. It also requires the U.S. President to impose five or more sanctions under the ISA on a person that he determines has knowingly, on or after July 1, 2013, sold, supplied or transferred to or from Iran precious metals or certain other materials (including graphite, aluminum, steel, coal and certain software) if used for specified purposes. If the U.S. President determines that Sinopec Group, or an entity it owns or controls, had engaged in any such activities and if the most extreme sanction under the ISA, blocking, were applied to Sinopec Group’s property, including controlled subsidiaries, Sinopec Group could be prohibited from engaging in business activities in the United States or with U.S. individuals or entities, and U.S. transactions in our securities and distributions to U.S. individuals and entities with respect to our securities could also be prohibited. 10 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to the IFCA, Executive Order 13645 and other U.S. laws, the U.S. government can sanction financial institutions anywhere in the world that engage in certain Iran related transactions. Such sanctions include prohibiting the financial institution from opening, or imposing strict conditions on maintaining, a correspondent or payable through account in the United States. The potential for financial institutions to be sanctioned for Iran related activities may impact our ability to engage in financial transactions related to our Iran transactions. 