Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, NB&T Financial’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and economic conditions generally. Beginning in the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and an economic downturn. The housing market declined, resulting in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures. The credit performance of mortgage and construction loans resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets encompassed all mortgage and real estate asset types, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. Although some improvements in the U.S. economy have occurred, housing prices are still depressed and continue to decline in some markets and unemployment remains high compared to levels prior to the recession. Debt concerns in Europe have added to volatility in the capital markets and concerns over whether such improvements in the U.S. economy will continue. Economic turmoil in Europe may become global. In addition, the uncertainty over whether the United States Congress will fail to raise the federal government’s debt ceiling and budget battles may have a negative effect on the economy and the stock market. In addition to the increases in delinquencies and foreclosures on existing loans and the reductions in the value of collateral, the slowing of business activity and the high unemployment rates have had an adverse effect on loan demand from both businesses and consumers. A worsening of current conditions would likely adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as those of our customers. As a result, we may experience increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as decreased loan demand. 10 Table of Contents The enactment of new legislation and increased regulatory oversight may significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The long-term effect of actions already taken as well as new legislation is unknown. Continued or renewed instability in the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain new customers. Further, legislation has been proposed that would reduce the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not significantly impact our ability to collect on our current loans or foreclose on collateral. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion, many of the details of the law and the effects they will have on our company will not be known for years. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act apply directly only to institutions much larger than ours, and some will affect only institutions with different charters than ours or institutions that engage in activities in which we do not engage. Among the changes to occur pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that can be expected to have an effect on our business in the future are the following: • the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to adopt and enforce consumer protection regulations; • new capital regulations for bank holding companies have been adopted, which require the Company to have increased capital, and any new trust preferred securities will no longer count toward Tier I capital; • the federal law prohibition on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was eliminated effective in July 2011; • the assessment base for determining deposit insurance premiums has been expanded to include liabilities other than just deposits; and • new corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries require new compensation practices, including providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, providing new executive compensation disclosures, and requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances. New regulations pertaining to debit card fees were enacted by the Federal Reserve in October 2011. The new rules cap debit interchange fees for banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Although there is no cap for smaller banks, including the Bank, it is still unclear what other market changes may impact debit card fees as the debit cards with higher fees become less competitive and larger banks take steps to recover income lost due to the caps on their debit card interchange fees. In addition, the FDIC has issued guidance prescribing the order in which Banks may process customer debit items and imposing limits on the overdraft fees Banks may charge. Currently, these limits only apply to banks governed by the FDIC. The OCC has not adopted this guidance at this time. Should the OCC adopt this guidance in the future these limitations could negatively impact the Company’s earnings. Although it is impossible for us to predict at this time all the effects the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us and the rest of our industry, it is possible that our non-interest income could decrease, both our interest expense and 11 Table of Contents our non-interest expense could increase, deposit insurance premiums could change, and steps may need to be taken to increase qualifying capital. We expect that our operating and compliance costs will continue to increase and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact our results of operations. The global financial markets have experienced increased volatility in recent years. While we generally invest in securities issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored entities and U.S. state and local governments with limited credit risk, certain investment securities we hold possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets. Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates, implied credit spreads and credit ratings. Over the last few years, structured investments, like our collateralized debt obligations, have been subject to significant market volatility due to the uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages, changes in prepayments of the underlying collateral and the lack of transparency related to the investment structures and the collateral underlying the structured investment vehicles. These conditions have resulted in our recognizing impairment charges on certain investment securities since 2009. Given recent market conditions and changing economic factors, we may be required to recognize additional impairment changes on securities held in our investment portfolio in the future. Increased capital requirements become effective starting in 2015, and we may not be able to access capital when needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain specified levels of capital. Federal banking agencies have adopted extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital. Should we experience significant loan losses, we may need additional capital. We may also elect to raise additional capital to support our business, to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other purposes. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance, therefore, that we can raise additional capital at all or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or desired, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A default by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect our business. Changes in national and local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline and as loans and deposits decline. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing the loans, which could adversely affect our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, a decline in the value of real estate could have a material adverse affect on us. As of December 31, 2013, 67% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, real estate construction, installment and agricultural loans, all of which are generally viewed as having more risk of default 12 Table of Contents than residential real estate loans and all of which, with the exception of installment loans, are typically larger than residential real estate loans. Residential real estate loans held in the portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards that do not include sub-prime lending. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Economic and political changes could also adversely affect our deposits and loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Since substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our credit risk and on our deposit and loan levels. Changes in our local economy resulting from the departure of a large employer may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has branch offices in several counties, the departure of a large employer in any of these communities could adversely affect our market area. This occurred with the departure of DHL Express (USA), Inc. and DHL Network Operations (USA), Inc. (collectively, “DHL”) and ABX Air, Inc. (“ABX Air”), which employed more people in Clinton County than any other employer. Clinton County’s unemployment rate continues to exceed state and national unemployment rates as a result of this departure. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and (ii) the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates also can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. During the last few years, there have been higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for 2009 and 2010. Additional changes were also made to require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts became insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest bearing transactional accounts became fully insured (unlimited coverage). Since then, the Dodd-Frank Act made the increase in the standard maximum insurance amount permanent. Beginning January 1, 2013, non-interest bearing transaction accounts are subject to the $250,000 limit on FDIC insurance per covered institution. This change has had some impact on our overall liquidity because those deposits are now being secured by a portion of the Company’s investment portfolio. 13 Table of Contents On February 7, 2011, the FDIC issued final regulations, effective April 1, 2011, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act to change the deposit insurance assessment base from total domestic deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, as well as changing the assessment for larger institutions and the assessment rate schedules. These changes have reduced the Bank’s FDIC premiums due to a lower assessment rate. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Changes to tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes. Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes. Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products. In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested. The effect of changes to the healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who choose to participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results. We offer healthcare coverage to our eligible employees with part of the cost subsidized by the Company. With recent changes to the healthcare laws in the United States becoming effective in 2014, more of our employees may choose to participate in our health insurance plans, which could increase our costs for such coverage and materially adversely impact our costs of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” on page 28 and 29. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. 14 Table of Contents Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board may change its requirements for establishing the allowance. Any increase in the provision for loan losses to raise the allowance to the required amount would decrease our pretax and net income. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms, insurance companies and government lenders, such as the Farm Service Agency and United States Department of Agriculture. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. NB&T Financial is smaller than many of our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us and our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the applicable accounting rules can require us to change our estimates. One of the most critical estimates is the level of the allowance of loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Material breaches in security of our systems and those of third parties providing services to us may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will 15 Table of Contents not be inoperable, to the extent possible. We also have implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and require our third-party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. In addition, customers also utilize Bank products (i.e. debit cards, bill pay, mobile banking) with third parties beyond the control of the Bank where customer information could be obtained fraudulently. The Bank has processes to limit losses on such fraudulent transactions but cannot limit losses entirely. Trading in our common shares is very limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your NB&T Financial common shares. Although the common shares of NB&T Financial are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in NB&T Financial’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy NB&T Financial common shares at that time. Our organizational documents and the large percentage of shares controlled by management and family members of management may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and code of regulations contain provisions, including a staggered board of directors and a supermajority vote requirement, that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Moreover, as of March 3, 2014, directors and executive officers controlled the vote of 21.0% of the outstanding common shares of NB&T Financial in addition to the 3.5% of the outstanding shares with respect to which the Bank controls the vote as trustee and an additional 27.5% owned by relatives of a director. The provisions in our articles and code of regulations and the percentage of voting control by NB&T Financial affiliates and relatives could have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that a shareholder might deem to be in the best interests of that shareholder. Future expansion may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of institutions in the future and may open new branches. We also may consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Expansions of our business involve a number of expenses and risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions; • the potential inaccuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risk with respect to the target institutions; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring local management and opening new offices, and the delay between commencing these activities and the generation of profits from the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition or other expansion and the possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into unfamiliar markets; • the introduction of new products and services into our existing business; 16 Table of Contents • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance that such expansion will result in the levels of profits we expect. Neither can we assure that integration efforts for any future acquisitions will be successful. We may issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions, which could dilute the economic and voting interests of our existing shareholders. The Company undertakes no obligation and disclaims any intention to publish revised information or updates to forward-looking statements contained in the above risk factors or in any other statement made at any time by any director, officer, employee or other representative of the Company unless and until any such revisions or updates are required to be disclosed by applicable securities laws or regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 