Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, NB&T Financial’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and economic conditions generally. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2010, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and an economic downturn. The housing market declined, resulting in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures. The credit performance of mortgage and construction loans resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets encompassed all mortgage and real estate asset types, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This tightening of credit has led to increased loan delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly, and access to deposits or borrowed funds has decreased for many institutions. It has also become more difficult to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The United States remains in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced, and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as those of our customers. As a result, we may experience increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. The enactment of new legislation and increased regulatory oversight may significantly affect our financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The long-term effect of actions already taken as well as new legislation is unknown. Continued or renewed instability in the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain new customers. Further, legislation has been proposed that would reduce the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not significantly impact our ability to collect on our current loans or foreclose on collateral. Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact our results of operations. The global financial markets have experienced increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence for the last two years. While we generally invest in securities with limited credit risk, certain investment securities we hold possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments 9 Table of Contents collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets. Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads. Over the last few years, structured investments, like our collateralized debt obligations, have been subject to significant market volatility due to the uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages, changes in prepayments of the underlying collateral and the lack of transparency related to the investment structures and the collateral underlying the structured investment vehicles. These conditions have resulted in our recognizing impairment charges on certain investment securities during 2009. Given recent market conditions and changing economic factors, we may be required to recognize additional impairment changes on securities held in its investment portfolio in the future. Recent levels of market volatility could adversely affect our ability to access capital and our financial condition and results of operations. For more than two years, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility. In some cases, share prices and credit availability for certain issuers have declined without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A default by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect our business. Changes in national and local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline and as loans and deposits decline. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing the loans, which could adversely affect our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, a decline in the value of real estate could have a material adverse affect on us. As of December 31, 2009, 57% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, real estate construction, installment and agricultural loans, all of which are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans and all of which, with the exception of installment loans, are typically larger than residential real estate loans. Residential real estate loans held in the portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards that does not include sub-prime lending. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Economic and political changes could also adversely affect our deposits and loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Since substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our credit risk and on our deposit and loan levels. Changes in our local economy resulting from the departure of a large employer may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. DHL Express (USA), Inc. and DHL Network Operations (USA), Inc. (collectively, “DHL”) and ABX Air, Inc. (“ABX Air”) employed more people in Clinton County than any other employer. DHL decided to outsource 10 Table of Contents its United States transportation and sorting services to another company. As a result, DHL and ABX Air have significantly reduced their operations in Wilmington and Clinton County, Ohio. Thousands of local jobs were eliminated. We expect the loss of jobs to have a negative short-term and potentially negative long-term impact on the local economy. Its impact on property values and other businesses in the community is unknown at this time. This reduction could impact the available opportunities to lend and to raise deposits. In addition, it could result in increased delinquencies, defaults and losses on existing loans and result in a decrease in deposits as customers use savings to pay bills or move to find different jobs. The Trust Department could also lose accounts as residents leave the area, reducing the Bank’s income from the Trust Department. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and (ii) the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates also can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. During 2008 and 2009, there were higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC voted on December 16, 2008 to increase assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits), beginning with the first quarter of 2009. Additional changes, beginning April 1, 2009, were to require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) instituted two temporary programs effective through December 31, 2009 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage). On May 20, 2009, President Obama signed into law the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 (the “HFSTHA”) which, among other things, amends the EESA to extend the effectiveness of these temporary programs through December 31, 2013. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for all account categories except IRAs and certain other retirement accounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that imposed a special assessment for the second quarter of 2009 of 5 basis points on each insured depository institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. We paid $241,000. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based 11 Table of Contents deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, the prepaid assessment rate was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect for the institution on September 30, 2009, was in effect for the entire third quarter of 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. As a result, an institution’s total base assessment rate for purposes estimating an institution’s assessment for 2011 and 2012 was increased by 3 basis points. Each institution’s prepaid assessment base was calculated using its third quarter 2009 assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated five percent annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. The three-year prepayment was $3.1 million for us, which will be expensed over three years. In January 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rule-making asking for comments on how the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment system could be changed to include the risks of certain employee compensation as criteria in the assessment system. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” included in the section of our 2009 Annual Report captioned “Critical Accounting Policies” on pages 30 and 31. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and 12 Table of Contents results of operations. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease our pretax and net income. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. NB&T Financial is smaller than many of our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this annual report under the heading “Regulation.” Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us and our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. One of the most critical estimates is the level of the allowance of loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. 13 Table of Contents Material breaches in security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. We also have implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. Trading in our common shares is very limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your NB&T Financial common shares. Although the common shares of NB&T Financial are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in NB&T Financial’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy NB&T Financial common shares at that time. Our organizational documents and the large percentage of shares controlled by management and family members of management may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and code of regulations contain provisions, including a staggered board of directors and a supermajority vote requirement, that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Moreover, as of March 2, 2010, directors and executive officers controlled the vote of 19.2% of the outstanding common shares of NB&T Financial in addition to the 4.0% of the outstanding shares with respect to which the Bank controls the vote as trustee and an additional 27.8% owned by relatives of a director. The provisions in our articles and code of regulations and the percentage of voting control by NB&T Financial affiliates and relatives could have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that a shareholder might deem to be in the best interests of that shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 