Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, NB&T Financial’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and (ii) the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates also can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. Changes in national and local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline and as loans and deposits decline. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing the loans, which could adversely affect our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, a decline in the value of real estate could have a material adverse affect on us. As of December 31, 2007, 65% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, real estate construction, installment and agricultural loans, all of which are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans and all of which, with the exception of installment loans, are typically larger than residential real estate loans. Residential real estate loans held in the portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards that does not include sub-prime lending. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Economic and political changes could also adversely affect our deposits and loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Since substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our credit risk and on our deposit and loan levels. Changes in our local economy resulting from the departure of a large employer. DHL Express (USA), Inc. and DHL Network Operations (USA), Inc. (collectively, “DHL”) and ABX Air, Inc. (“ABX Air”) employ more people in Clinton County than any other employer. DHL has decided to outsource its United States transportation and sorting services to another company. As a result, DHL and ABX Air are significantly reducing their operations in Wilmington and Clinton County, Ohio. Thousands of local jobs 9 Table of Contents are expected to be eliminated. We expect the loss of jobs to have a negative short-term and potentially negative long-term impact on the local economy. Its impact on property values and other businesses in the community is unknown at this time. This reduction could impact the available opportunities to lend and to raise deposits. In addition, it could result in increased delinquencies, defaults and losses on existing loans and result in a decrease in deposits as customers use savings to pay bills or move to find different jobs. The Trust Department could also lose accounts as residents leave the area, reducing the Bank’s income from the Trust Department. Recent developments in the residential mortgage and related markets and the economy may adversely affect our business. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States, including Ohio, has been negatively impacted by several economic factors. Included among those factors are increasing rates and payments on adjustable-rate mortgages, decreasing housing values and increased credit standards for borrowers. As a result, across Ohio and the United States, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans have increased and may continue to increase. Additionally, the lower housing prices and appraisal values may result in additional delinquencies and loan losses. While the residential real estate loans held in our portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards and do not include sub-prime loans, we do originate and hold fixed- and adjustable-rate loans and residential construction loans. If the residential loan market continues to deteriorate, especially in Ohio and our local markets, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Difficult conditions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our financial performance depends on the quality of loans in our portfolio. That quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including underwriting procedures, collateral quality or geographic or industry conditions, as well as the recent deterioration in the financial markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. In addition, our credit risk may be increased when our collateral cannot be sold or is sold at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan balance. Deterioration in our ability to collect our loans receivable may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Federal and state governments could adopt laws responsive to the current credit conditions that would adversely affect our ability to collect on loans. Federal or state governments might adopt legislation or regulations reducing the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. Additionally, legislation has been proposed to give judges the ability to adjust the principal and interest payments on a mortgage to allow homeowners to avoid foreclosure. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC insures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. During 2008, the Company fully utilized its one-time FDIC insurance credits and recognized approximately $99,000 in FDIC insurance expense. In late 2008, the FDIC announced an increase in insurance premium rates of seven basis points for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced adoption of an interim final rule imposing a one-time special assessment of 20 basis points and a final rule adjusting the risk-based calculation used to determine the premiums due by each insured institution. Management of the Company expects that the special assessment and the changes to the premium calculation could increase the Company’s FDIC insurance expense for 2009 by $1.3 million to $1.8 million. 10 Table of Contents In addition, the FDIC has adopted the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, pursuant to which it provides unlimited insurance on deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. Any institution wishing to participate will pay a 10 basis point surcharge on the insured deposits. The Company has chosen to participate. Such participation will increase our expenses and decrease net income. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits at the Bank. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at the Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. NB&T Financial is smaller than many of our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this annual report under the heading “Regulation.” Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us and our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of 11 Table of Contents these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. One of the most critical estimates is the level of the allowance of loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Trading in our common shares is very limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your NB&T Financial common shares. Although the common shares of NB&T Financial are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in NB&T Financial’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy NB&T Financial common shares at that time. Our organizational documents and the large percentage of shares controlled by management and family members of management may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and code of regulations contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Moreover, as of March 2, 2009, directors and executive officers controlled the vote of 19.9% of the outstanding common shares of NB&T Financial in addition to the 4.7% of the outstanding shares with respect to which the Bank controls the vote as trustee and an additional 29.9% owned by relatives of a director. The provisions in our articles and code of regulations and the percentage of voting control by NB&T Financial affiliates and relatives could have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that a shareholder might deem to be in the best interests of that shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 