Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, NB&T Financial’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and (ii) the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates also can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. Changes in national and local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline and as loans and deposits decline. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing the loans, which could adversely affect our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, a decline in the value of real estate could have a material adverse affect on us. As of December 31, 2006, 66% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, real estate construction, installment and agricultural loans, all of which are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans and all of which, with the exception of installment loans, are typically larger than residential real estate loans. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Economic and political changes could also adversely affect our deposits and loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Since substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our credit risk and on our deposit and loan levels. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. NB&T Financial is smaller than many of our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. 6 Table of Contents Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this annual report under the heading “Regulation.” Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us and our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. One of the most critical estimates is the level of the allowance of loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Trading in our common shares is very limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your NB&T Financial common shares. Although the common shares of NB&T Financial are quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in NB&T Financial’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy NB&T Financial common shares at that time. Our organizational documents and the large percentage of shares controlled by management and family members of management may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and code of regulations contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as 7 Table of Contents directors and take other corporate actions. Moreover, as of March 1, 2007, directors and executive officers controlled the vote of 19.0% of the outstanding common shares of NB&T Financial in addition to the 3.9% of the outstanding shares with respect to which the Bank controls the vote as trustee and an additional 29.4% owned by relatives of a director. The provisions in our articles and code of regulations and the percentage of voting control by NB&T Financial affiliates and relatives could have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that a shareholder might deem to be in the best interests of that shareholder. REGULATION General Because of its ownership of all the outstanding stock of the Bank, NB&T Financial is subject to regulation, examination and oversight by the FRB as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHCA. The Bank, as a national bank, is subject to regulation, examination and oversight by the OCC and special examination by the FRB. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati. In addition, since its deposits are insured by the FDIC, the Bank is also subject to some regulation, oversight and special examination by the FDIC. The Bank must file periodic financial reports with the FDIC, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Examinations are conducted periodically by these federal regulators to determine whether the Bank and NB&T Financial are in compliance with various regulatory requirements and are operating in a safe and sound manner. In general, the FRB may initiate enforcement actions for violations of law and regulations. Bank Holding Company Regulation The FRB has adopted capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies, pursuant to which, on a consolidated basis, NB&T Financial must maintain total capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets. Risk-weighted assets consist of all assets, plus credit equivalent amounts of certain off-balance sheet items, which are weighted at percentage levels ranging from 0% to 100%, based on the relative credit risk of the asset. At least half of the total capital to meet this risk-based requirement must consist of core or “Tier 1” capital, which includes common stockholders’ equity, qualifying perpetual preferred stock (up to 25% of Tier 1 capital) and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain other intangibles, and portions of certain nonfinancial equity investments. The remainder of total capital may consist of supplementary or “Tier 2 capital.” In addition to this risk-based capital requirement, the FRB requires bank holding companies to meet a leverage ratio of a minimum level of Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets of 3%, if they have the highest regulatory examination rating, well-diversified risk and minimal anticipated growth or expansion. All other bank holding companies are expected to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4% of average total consolidated assets. NB&T Financial was in compliance with these capital requirements at December 31, 2006. For NB&T Financial’s capital ratios, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. A bank holding company is required by law to guarantee the compliance of any insured depository institution subsidiary that may become “undercapitalized” (defined in the regulations as not meeting minimum capital requirements) with the terms of the capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal banking agency. The BHCA restricts NB&T Financial’s ownership or control of the outstanding shares of any class of voting stock of any company engaged in a nonbanking business, other than companies engaged in certain activities determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking. In addition, the FRB has the authority to require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of any nonbank subsidiary (other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank) upon the determination by the FRB that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness and stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company. NB&T Financial currently has no nonbank subsidiaries, except subsidiaries of the Bank. The ownership of subsidiaries of the Bank is regulated by the OCC, rather than the FRB. 8 Table of Contents The Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 permits bank holding companies to become financial holding companies and thereby affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. A bank holding company may become a financial holding company if each of its subsidiary banks is well capitalized under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act of 1991 prompt corrective action provisions, is well managed, and has at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, by filing a declaration that the bank holding company wishes to become a financial holding company. In October 2006, NB&T Financial Group, Inc. became a financial holding company. No regulatory approval is required for a financial holding company to acquire a company, other than a bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board. The Financial Services Modernization Act defines “financial in nature” to include: • securities underwriting, dealing and market making; • sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; • insurance underwriting and agency; • merchant banking; and • activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking. A national bank also may engage, subject to limitations on investment, in activities that are financial in nature, other than insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investment, real estate development and real estate investment, through a financial subsidiary of the bank, if the bank is well capitalized, well managed and has at least a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act rating. Subsidiary banks of a financial holding company or national banks with financial subsidiaries must continue to be well capitalized and well managed in order to continue to engage in activities that are financial in nature without regulatory actions or restrictions, which could include divestiture of the financial in nature subsidiary or subsidiaries. In addition, a financial holding company or a bank may not acquire a company that is engaged in activities that are financial in nature unless each of the subsidiary banks of the financial holding company or the bank has a Community Reinvestment Act rating of satisfactory or better. NB&T Insurance is a financial subsidiary. Transactions between NB&T Financial and the Bank are subject to statutory limits in Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (the “FRA”), which limit the amounts of such transactions and require that the terms of the transactions be at least as favorable to the Bank as the terms would be of a similar transaction between the Bank and an unrelated party. NB&T Financial and the Bank were in compliance with these requirements and restrictions at December 31, 2006. The FRB must approve the application of a bank holding company to acquire any bank or savings association. National Bank Regulation Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The OCC is an office in the Department of the Treasury and is subject to the general oversight of the Secretary of the Treasury. The OCC is responsible for the regulation and supervision of all national banks, including the Bank. The OCC issues regulations governing the operation of national banks and, in accordance with federal law, prescribes the permissible investments and activities of national banks. The Bank is authorized to exercise trust powers in accordance with OCC guidelines. National banks are subject to regulatory oversight under various consumer protection and fair lending laws. These laws govern, among other things, truth-in-lending disclosure, equal credit opportunity, fair credit reporting and community reinvestment. The Bank is required to meet certain minimum capital requirements set by the OCC. These requirements consist of risk-based capital guidelines and a leverage ratio, which are substantially the same as the capital 9 Table of Contents requirements imposed on NB&T Financial. The Bank was in compliance with those capital requirements at December 31, 2006. For the Bank capital ratios, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The OCC may adjust the risk-based capital requirement of a national bank on an individualized basis to take into account risks due to concentrations of credit or nontraditional activities. The OCC has adopted regulations governing prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of capital deficient and otherwise troubled national banks. At each successively lower defined capital category, a national bank is subject to more restrictive and numerous mandatory or discretionary regulatory actions or limits, and the OCC has less flexibility in determining how to resolve the problems of the institution. In addition, the OCC generally can downgrade a national bank’s capital category, notwithstanding its capital level, if, after notice and opportunity for hearing, the national bank is deemed to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, because it has not corrected deficiencies that resulted in it receiving a less than satisfactory examination rating on matters other than capital or it is deemed to be in an unsafe or unsound condition. The Bank’s capital at December 31, 2006, met the standards for the highest capital category, a well-capitalized bank. A national bank is subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends, including dividends to a holding company. The Bank may not pay a dividend if it would cause the Bank not to meet its capital requirements. In addition, the dividends that a Bank subsidiary can pay to its holding company without prior approval of regulatory agencies is limited to net income plus its retained net income for the preceding two years. Based on the current financial condition of the Bank, the Bank does not expect these provisions to affect the current ability of the Bank to pay dividends to NB&T Financial in an amount customary for the Bank. OCC regulations generally limit the aggregate amount that a national bank can lend to one borrower or aggregated groups of related borrowers to an amount equal to 15% of the bank’s unimpaired capital and surplus. A national bank may loan to one borrower an additional amount not to exceed 10% of the association’s unimpaired capital and surplus, if the additional amount is fully secured by certain forms of “readily marketable collateral.” Loans to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders and their related interests must conform to the OCC lending limits. All transactions between national banks and their affiliates, including NB&T Financial, must comply with Sections 23A and 23B of the FRA. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures the deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and thrifts and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and thrift industries. The FDIC is authorized to establish annual assessment rates for deposit insurance. The FDIC has established a risk-based assessment system for members. Under this system, assessments vary based on the risk the institution poses to its deposit insurance fund. The risk level is determined based on the institution’s capital level and the FDIC’s level of supervisory concern about the institution. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC if it finds that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution’s regulatory agency. In February of 2006, President Bush signed into law the Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and its companion bill, the Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005 (collectively, the “Deposit Insurance Reform Acts”), which provide for the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) to be merged into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). The Deposit Insurance Reform Acts provide for several additional changes to the deposit insurance system, including the following: • Increasing the deposit insurance limit for retirement accounts from $100,000 to $250,000; • Adjusting the deposit insurance limits (currently $100,000 for most accounts) every five years based on an inflation index, with the first adjustment to be effective on January 1, 2011; • Providing pass-through deposit insurance for the deposits of employee benefit plans (but prohibiting undercapitalized depository institutions from accepting employee benefit plan deposits); 10 Table of Contents • Allocating an aggregate of $4.7 billion of one-time credits to offset the premiums of depository institutions based on their assessment bases at the end of 1996; • Establishing rules for awarding cash dividends to depository institutions, based on their relative contributions to the DIF and its predecessor funds, when the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain levels; and • Revising the rules and procedures for risk-based premium assessments. As a result of the above change, the BIF and the SAIF were merged into the DIF in 2006. The Company has not yet experienced an increase in its insurance premiums due to the one-time credits; however, future insurance premiums may increase. Federal Reserve Board. The FRA requires national banks to maintain reserves against their net transaction accounts (primarily checking and NOW accounts). The amounts are subject to adjustment by the FRB. At December 31, 2006, the Bank was in compliance with its reserve requirements. Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Banks (the FHLBs) provide credit to their members in the form of advances. As a member, the Bank must maintain an investment in the capital stock of the FHLB of Cincinnati in an amount equal to the greater of 1% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank’s residential real estate loans, home purchase contracts and similar obligations at the beginning of each year, or 5% of its advances from the FHLB. The Bank is in compliance with this requirement with an investment in FHLB of Cincinnati stock having a book value of $8.3 million at December 31, 2006. The FHLB advances are secured by collateral in one or more specified categories. The amount a member may borrow from the FHLB is limited based upon the amounts of various assets held by the member. Ohio Department of Insurance. The Bank’s insurance agency operating subsidiary is subject to the insurance laws and regulations of the State of Ohio and the Ohio Department of Insurance. The insurance laws and regulations require education and licensing of agencies and individual agents, require reports and impose business conduct rules. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 