Item 1A. Risk Factors — (Continued). Governmental Regulations As noted in Item 1, the Corporation is subject to various governmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Corporation’s products. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact net sales, operating results and cash flows. Contingent Repurchase Agreements As referenced in Note 12 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Corporation is contingently liable under repurchase agreements with certain financial institutions providing inventory financing for retailers of its products. The Corporation could be required to fulfill some or all of the repurchase agreements, resulting in increased expense and reduced cash flows. Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business The industries in which the Corporation operates are highly cyclical, and are impacted by but not limited to the following conditions: Ÿ Availability of wholesale and retail financing Ÿ Consumer confidence Ÿ Interest rates Ÿ Demographic and employment trends Ÿ Availability of used or repossessed homes or recreational vehicles Ÿ Impact of inflation Sales of manufactured housing, modular housing and recreational vehicle industries are also seasonal in nature with sales being lowest in the winter months. Seasonal changes, in addition to weakness in demand in one or both of the Corporation’s market segments, could materially impact the Corporation’s net sales, operating results and cash flows. Dependence on Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel The Corporation depends on the efforts of its executive officers and certain key employees. The loss of the service of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows of the Corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 8 Table of Contents 