Item 1A. Risk Factors — (Continued). Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business — (Continued) Sales of manufactured housing, modular housing and recreational vehicle industries are also seasonal in nature with sales being lowest in the winter months. Seasonal changes, in addition to weakness in demand in one or both of the Corporation’s market segments, could materially impact the Corporation’s net sales, operating results and cash flows. Changing Consumer Preferences Changes in consumer preferences for manufactured housing, modular housing and recreational vehicles occur over time, and consequently the Corporation responds to changing demand by evaluating the market acceptability of its products. Delays in responding to changing consumer preferences could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows. Increased Fuel Prices The Corporation’s recreational vehicle products depend on the use of vehicles that operate on gasoline or diesel fuel. In the Corporation’s history there have been periods where the price of gasoline and diesel fuel dramatically increased. These increases resulted in greater cost associated with recreational vehicle travel. This trend could result in decreased net sales, operating results and cash flows. Governmental Regulations As noted in Item 1, the Corporation is subject to various governmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Corporation’s products. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact net sales, operating results and cash flows. Dependence on Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel The Corporation depends on the efforts of its executive officers and certain key employees. The loss of the service of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows of the Corporation. Incurrence of Net Losses Due to negative economic conditions that impacted the manufactured housing, modular housing and recreational vehicle industries, the Corporation incurred net losses from fiscal year 2008 to 2013. While the Corporation’s management is pursuing strategies as referenced in Item 7 to increase sales and decrease costs, no one can predict with certainty what the future may hold. Continued losses could negatively affect the Corporation’s liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 8 Table of Contents 