Item 1A. Risk Factors — (Continued). Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business — (Continued) Sales in both industries are also seasonal in nature with sales being weakest in the winter months. Seasonal changes, in addition to continued weakness in demand in one or both of the Corporation’s market segments, could materially impact the Corporation’s sales, operating results and cash flows. Changing Consumer Preferences Changes in consumer preferences for manufactured housing and recreational vehicles occur over time, and consequently the Corporation responds to changing demand by evaluating the market acceptability of its products. Delays in responding to changing consumer preferences could have an adverse effect on sales, operating results and cash flows. Increased Fuel Prices The Corporation’s recreational vehicle products depend on the use of vehicles that operate on gasoline or diesel fuel. In the Corporation’s history there have been periods where the price of gasoline and diesel fuel dramatically increased. These increases resulted in greater cost associated with recreational vehicle travel. This trend could result in decreased sales, operating results and cash flows. Governmental Regulations As noted in Item 1, the Corporation is subject to various governmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Corporation’s products. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact sales, operating results and cash flows. Dependence on Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel The Corporation depends on the efforts of its executive officers and certain key employees. The loss of the service of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the sales, operating results and cash flows of the Corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 8 Table of Contents 