Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors or potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below. Additional risks of which the Corporation is presently unaware or that the Corporation considers immaterial may also impair business operations and hinder financial performance. Retail Financing Availability Customers who purchase the Corporation’s manufactured homes generally obtain retail financing from third party lenders. The availability, terms and cost of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. A customer seeking to purchase a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan maturity versus a customer financing the purchase of land and a home. This difference is due to most states classifying home-only manufactured housing loans as personal property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection. 5 Table of Contents In recent years many lenders of home-only financing have tightened credit underwriting standards, with some deciding to exit the industry. These actions resulted in decreased availability of retail financing, causing a negative effect on sales and operating results. If retail financing were to be further curtailed, sales, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Wholesale Financing Availability Independent dealers of the Corporation’s products generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. A dealer’s ability to obtain financing is significantly affected by the number of lending institutions offering floor planning, and by an institution’s lending limits. In recent years the manufactured housing industry experienced a reduction in both the number of lenders offering floor planning, and the amount of money available for financing. These events could have a negative impact on a dealer’s ability to purchase manufactured housing products, resulting in lower sales, operating results and cash flows. Dependence on Independent Dealers The Corporation sells its manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to independent dealers. These dealers are not obligated to exclusively sell the Corporation’s products, and may choose to sell competitor’s products. In addition, a dealer may become financially insolvent and be forced to close its business. Both scenarios could have an adverse effect on sales, operating results and cash flows. Dealer Inventories As wholesale shipments of manufactured homes and recreational vehicles within each respective industry exceed retail sales, dealer inventories increase to a level where dealers decrease orders from manufacturers. As manufacturers respond to reduced demand, many either offer discounts to maintain production volumes or curtail production levels. Both outcomes could have a negative impact on sales, operating results and cash flows. Contingent Repurchase Agreements As referenced in Note 2 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Corporation is contingently liable under repurchase agreements with certain financial institutions providing inventory financing for retailers of its products. The Corporation could be required to fulfill some or all of the repurchase agreements, resulting in increased expense and reduced cash flows. Cost and Availability of Raw Materials Prices and availability of raw materials used to manufacture the Corporation’s products can change significantly due to fluctuations in supply and demand. The Corporation has historically been able to have an adequate supply of raw materials by maintaining good relations with its vendors. In addition, increased prices have historically been passed on to dealers by raising the price of manufactured homes and recreational vehicles. There is no certainty that the Corporation will be able to pass on future price increases and maintain adequate supply of raw materials. The inability to raise the price of its products and to maintain a proper supply of materials could have a negative impact on sales, operating results and cash flows. Competition As noted in Item 1, the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are highly competitive with particular emphasis on price and features offered. Some of the Corporation’s competitors are vertically integrated by owning retail, consumer finance and insurance operations. This integration may provide competitors with an advantage. In addition, the Corporation’s manufactured homes compete with other forms of housing, such as new and existing site-built homes, apartments, condominiums and townhouses. The inability to effectively compete in this environment could result in lower sales, operating results and cash flows. 6 Table of Contents Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business The industries in which the Corporation operates are highly cyclical, and are impacted by the following conditions: • Consumer confidence • Interest rates • Demographic and employment trends • Availability of used or repossessed homes or recreational vehicles • Impact of inflation • Increased global tensions. Sales in both industries are also seasonal in nature with sales being weakest in the winter months. Seasonal changes, in addition to continued weakness in demand in one or both of the Corporation’s market segments, could materially impact the Corporation’s sales, operating results and cash flows. Changing Consumer Preferences Changes in consumer preferences for manufactured housing and recreational vehicles occur over time, and consequently the Corporation responds to changing demand by evaluating the market acceptability of its products. Delays in responding to changing consumer preferences could have an adverse effect on sales, operating results and cash flows. Increased Fuel Prices The Corporation’s recreational vehicle products depend on the use of vehicles that operate on gasoline or diesel fuel. In the Corporation’s history there have been periods where the price of gasoline and diesel fuel dramatically increased. These increases resulted in greater cost associated with recreational vehicle travel. These events could occur in the future, possibly causing decreased sales, operating results and cash flows. Governmental Regulations As noted in Item 1, the Corporation is subject to various governmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Corporation’s products. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact sales, operating results and cash flows. Dependence on Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel The Corporation depends on the efforts of its executive officers and certain key employees. The loss of the service of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the sales, operating results and cash flows of the Corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 7 Table of Contents 