Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information under the caption “Competition,” the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Failure of our satellites would significantly damage our business. Our three orbiting satellites were launched in 2000. We do not maintain in-orbit insurance policies covering our satellites. We estimate that two of our in-orbit satellites will have a 13 year useful life and our third in-orbit satellite will have a 15 year useful life from the time of launch. Our operating results would be materially adversely affected if the useful life of our satellites is significantly shorter than we expect, whether as a result of a satellite failure or technical obsolescence, and we fail to launch replacement satellites in a timely manner. The useful lives of our satellites will vary and depend on a number of factors, including: • degradation and durability of solar panels; • quality of construction; • random failure of satellite components, which could result in significant damage to or loss of a satellite; • amount of fuel our satellites consume; and • damage or destruction by electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects in space, which occur only in rare cases. Our in-orbit satellites have experienced circuit failures on their solar arrays. The circuit failures our satellites have experienced do not affect our current operations. Additional circuit failures could reduce the estimated useful life of our existing in-orbit satellites. In the ordinary course of operation, satellites experience failures of component parts and operational and performance anomalies. Components on our in-orbit satellites have failed, and from time to time we have experienced anomalies in the operation and performance of our satellites. These failures and anomalies are expected to continue in the ordinary course, and it is impossible to predict if any of these future events will have a material adverse effect on our operations or the useful life of our existing in-orbit satellites. If one of our three satellites fails in orbit, our service would be impaired until such time as we successfully launch and commission our spare satellite, which would take six months or more. If two or more of our satellites fail in orbit in close proximity in time, our service could be suspended until replacement satellites are launched and placed into service. In such event, our business would be materially impacted and we could default on our commitments. We have entered into an agreement with Space Systems/Loral to design and construct two new satellites. The first of these new satellites is expected to be launched in the second quarter of 2009. The second of these new satellites is expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of 2010. Satellite launches have significant risks, including launch failure, damage or destruction of the satellite during launch and failure to achieve a proper orbit or operate as planned. Our agreement with Space Systems/Loral does not protect us against the risks inherent in a satellite launch or in-orbit operations. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business. As the holder of an FCC license to operate a satellite radio service in the United States, we are subject to FCC rules and regulations. The terms of our license require us to meet certain conditions, including designing a receiver that will permit end users to access XM Radio’s system; coordination of our satellite radio service with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and coordination of our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Non-compliance by us with these conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. The FCC is reviewing whether the FM transmitters in certain SIRIUS radios comply with the Commission’s emissions and frequency rules. We are cooperating with the FCC in its inquiry, and have discovered that certain SIRIUS personnel requested manufacturers to produce SIRIUS radios that were not consistent with these rules. We have taken steps to ensure that this situation does not happen again, including the adoption of a compliance plan to ensure that in the future our products comply with all applicable FCC rules. We believe our radios that are currently in production comply with applicable FCC rules. SIRIUS radios that include compliant FM transmitters may be subject to some transmission noise, which may result in us encouraging professional installation in 17 Table of Contents some cases. The FCC’s inquiry may result in fines, additional license conditions or other FCC actions that are detrimental to our business. The FCC has not yet issued final rules permitting us to operate and deploy terrestrial repeaters to fill gaps in our satellite coverage. We are operating our terrestrial repeaters on a “non-interference” basis pursuant to a grant of special temporary authority from the FCC. The FCC’s final terrestrial repeater rules may require us to reduce the power of our terrestrial repeaters and limit our ability to deploy additional repeaters. If the FCC requires us to reduce significantly the power of our terrestrial repeaters, this would have an adverse effect on the quality of our service in certain markets and/or cause us to alter our terrestrial repeater infrastructure at a substantial cost. If the FCC limits our ability to deploy additional terrestrial repeaters, our ability to improve any deficiencies in our service quality that may be identified in the future would be adversely affected. In October 2006, we ceased operating 11 of our terrestrial repeaters which we discovered had been operating at variance to the specifications and applied to the FCC for new authority to resume operating these repeaters. Our failure to comply with the initial special temporary authority could result in disciplinary action by the FCC, although we do not believe such action would have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We may need to refinance a portion of our debt, which refinancing may not be available. In 2004, we issued $300 million in aggregate principal amount of our 21/2% Convertible Notes due 2009. These notes are convertible, at the option of the holders, into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 226.7574 shares of common stock for each $1,000.00 principal amount, or $4.41 per share of common stock. These notes mature in February 2009. If our common stock does not trade above $4.41 per share prior to the maturity of these notes it is not likely that the holders will convert them prior to maturity, and we will have to refinance these notes when they mature in February 2009. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness, of which $250 million was secured by our assets. We may incur more debt if we believe we can raise money on favorable terms. A significant portion of our indebtedness contains restrictive covenants. Our indebtedness could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, possibly reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Failure to comply with the covenants contained in the indentures and agreements governing our debt could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause us to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. We may from time to time modify our business plan, and these changes could adversely affect us and our financial condition. We regularly evaluate our plans and strategy. These evaluations often result in changes to our plans and strategy, some of which may be material and significantly change our cash requirements. These changes in our plans or strategy may include: the acquisition of unique or compelling programming; the introduction of new features or services; significant new or enhanced distribution arrangements; investments in infrastructure, such as satellites, equipment or radio spectrum; and acquisitions of third parties that own programming, distribution, infrastructure, assets, or any combination of the foregoing. To fund incremental cash requirements, or as market opportunities arise, we may choose to raise additional funds through the sale of additional debt securities, equity securities or a combination of debt and equity securities. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fiscal obligations and could contain additional restrictive covenants. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. These additional sources of funds may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us. Our business might never become profitable. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $4.4 billion. We expect our cumulative net losses to grow as we make payments under various contracts, incur marketing and subscriber acquisition costs and make interest payments on our existing debt. If we are unable ultimately to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, we could default on our commitments and may have to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. 18 Table of Contents Programming is an important part of our service, and the costs to renew our programming arrangements may be more than anticipated. Third-party content is an important part of our service, and we compete with many entities for content. We have entered into a number of important content arrangements, including agreements with the NFL, Howard Stern and NASCAR, which require us to pay substantial sums. Our agreement with the NFL expires at the end of the 2010-2011 NFL season; our agreement with Howard Stern expires in December 2010; and our agreement with NASCAR expires in 2011. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate renewals of one or more of these agreements, or renew such agreements at costs we believe are attractive. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional third-party content within the costs contemplated by our business plan. Higher than expected costs of attracting new subscribers could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. We are spending substantial funds on advertising and marketing and in transactions with automakers, radio manufacturers, retailers and others to obtain and attract subscribers. If the costs of attracting new subscribers are greater than expected, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. Higher subscriber turnover could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. We are experiencing, and expect to continue to experience in the future, subscriber turnover, or churn. If we are unable to retain our current subscribers, or the costs of retaining subscribers is higher than we expect, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. Weaker than expected market acceptance of our service could adversely affect our advertising revenue and operating results. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is directly affected by the number of subscribers to our service and the amount of time subscribers spend listening to our talk and entertainment channels or our traffic and weather service. Our ability to generate advertising revenues also depends on several factors, including the level and type of market penetration of our service, competition for advertising dollars from other media, and changes in the advertising industry and the economy generally. We directly compete for audiences and advertising revenues with traditional AM/FM radio stations and other media, some of which maintain longstanding relationships with advertisers and possess greater resources than we do. Failure of third parties to perform could adversely affect our business. Our business depends in part on the efforts of third parties, especially the efforts of: • automakers that manufacture, market and sell vehicles capable of receiving our service, but in many cases have no obligations to do so; • consumer electronics manufacturers that manufacture and distribute SIRIUS radios; • companies that manufacture and sell integrated circuits for SIRIUS radios; • programming providers and on-air talent, including Howard Stern; • retailers that market and sell SIRIUS radios and promote subscriptions to our service; and • third party vendors that have designed, built, support or operate important elements of our system, such as our customer service facilities. If one or more of these third parties does not perform in a sufficient or timely manner, our business will be adversely affected and we could be placed at a long-term disadvantage. The sale and lease of vehicles with SIRIUS radios and the retail aftermarket are important sources of subscribers for us. To the extent sales of vehicles by automakers slow or retailers elect to promote other competing products, our subscriber growth could be adversely impacted. We do not manufacture satellite radios or accessories, and we depend on manufacturers and others for the production of SIRIUS radios and their component parts. If one or more manufacturers does not produce radios in a sufficient quantity to meet demand, or if such radios were not to perform as advertised or were to be defective, sales of our service and our reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to liabilities associated with the design, manufacture and distribution of SIRIUS radios. We do not manufacture, import, or distribute SIRIUS radios. We do design, establish specifications for, source parts and components for, and manage various aspects of the logistics and production of SIRIUS radios. As a result of these activities, we may be exposed to liabilities associated with the design, manufacture and distribution of SIRIUS radios that the providers of an 19 Table of Contents entertainment service would not customarily be subject to, such as liabilities for design defects, patent infringement and compliance with applicable laws, as well as the costs of returned product. Rapid technological and industry changes could make our service obsolete. The audio entertainment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving standards. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make our technologies obsolete or less competitive in the marketplace. Our national broadcast studio, terrestrial repeater network, satellite uplink facility or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorist activities. An earthquake, tornado, flood, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could damage our national broadcast studio, terrestrial repeater network or satellite uplink facility, interrupt our service and harm our business. We do not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the fuel functions of our terrestrial repeater network, national broadcast studio or satellite uplink facility in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to the satellite that transmits to our terrestrial repeater network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in certain areas. Damage to our national broadcast studio would restrict our programming production and require us to obtain programming from third parties to continue our service. Damage to our satellite uplink facility could result in a complete loss of service until we transfer our operations to a suitable replacement facility. Consumers could pirate our service. Individuals who engage in piracy may be able to obtain or rebroadcast our satellite radio service or access the internet transmission of our service without paying the subscription fee. Although we use encryption technology to mitigate the risk of signal theft, such technology may not be adequate to prevent theft of our signal. If signal theft becomes widespread, it could harm our business. Risks Relating to the Pending Merger with XM Radio In connection with closing the merger, a substantial amount of XM Radio’s indebtedness will need to be refinanced or amended. In connection with closing the merger, XM Radio must offer to repurchase a significant portion of its outstanding debt at 101% of the principal amount thereof or obtain the consent of the holders of the debt to eliminate such repurchase obligation. Any required repurchase would likely be financed with other debt and, due to prevailing conditions in the debt markets, debt financing to fund such repurchase may not be available on terms favorable to the combined company or at all. Similarly, soliciting the consent of holders to amend XM Radio’s debt to eliminate the repurchase obligation may not be successful or, if successful, may require XM Radio to pay a significant amount to the holders. At December 31, 2007, the aggregate principal amount of XM Radio’s outstanding debt was approximately $1.5 billion, and no outstanding debt was trading above 101% of the outstanding principal amount. If the XM Radio debt is trading above 101% at the time of any required repurchase offer, a large majority of holders would be unlikely to sell their notes in the repurchase offer. The combined company’s indebtedness following the completion of the merger will be substantial. This indebtedness could adversely affect the combined company in many ways, including by reducing funds available for other business purposes. The pro forma indebtedness of the combined company as of December 31, 2007, after giving effect to the merger, would have been approximately $2.8 billion. This indebtedness could reduce funds available for investment in research and development and capital expenditures or create competitive disadvantages compared to competitors with lower debt levels. In addition, existing covenants in our debt instruments and XM Radio’s debt instruments woud limit the transfer of cash between the two companies after a combination and require that inter-company dealings be effected on an arm’s-length basis, which may affect the timing or amount of synergies realized from the integration of the two companies. The ability to complete the merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or could cause either party to abandon the merger. In deciding whether to grant regulatory approvals, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the merger on competition and whether the merger is in the public interest. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. 20 Table of Contents The merger agreement requires us to accept significant conditions from regulatory bodies before we may refuse to close the merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that either company will obtain the necessary approvals or that any other conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Any delay in completion of the merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the merger. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may significantly reduce the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if we successfully complete the merger within the expected timeframe and integrate our business with XM Radio’s business. The anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in two distinct locations. Due to legal restrictions, we have conducted only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Additionally, as a condition to their approval of the merger, regulatory agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. If we agree to these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger may be impaired. The issuance of shares of our common stock to XM Radio stockholders in the merger will substantially reduce the percentage interests of our stockholders. If the merger is completed, we will issue up to approximately 1.7 billion shares of our common stock in the merger. Based on the number of shares of our common stock and XM Radio common stock outstanding on December 31, 2007, XM Radio stockholders before the merger will own, in the aggregate, approximately 50% of the shares of common stock outstanding immediately after the merger. The issuance of shares of our common stock to XM Radio stockholders in the merger and to holders of assumed options and restricted stock units to acquire shares of XM Radio common stock and warrants will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interest of our current stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value. Failure to complete the merger for regulatory or other reasons could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and financial results. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of approval, including from the Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Justice. There is no assurance that we will receive the necessary approvals or satisfy the other conditions to the merger. Failure to complete the pending merger would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. We will also remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, whether or not the merger is completed. In addition, the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption as to whether the merger will occur. Consequently, the completion of, or a failure to complete, the merger could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. Resales of shares of our common stock following the merger and additional obligations to issue shares of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 1.47 billion shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 165 million shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and other rights to purchase or acquire shares. We currently expect that we may issue up to 1.7 billion shares of our common stock in connection with the merger. The issuance of these new shares of our common stock and the sale of additional shares of our common stock that may become eligible for sale in the public market from time to time upon exercise of options (including a substantial number of our options that will replace existing XM Radio options) could have the effect of depressing the market price for shares of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents The trading price of shares of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of shares of XM Radio common stock or shares of our common stock before the merger. If we complete the merger, holders of XM Radio common stock will become holders of our common stock. The results of our operations, as well as the trading price of our common stock, after the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our results of operations, XM Radio’s results of operations and the trading price of XM Radio common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 