ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information under the caption “Competition,” the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Our business and our financial condition is being affected by general economic conditions. We believe that our business and our financial condition is being adversely affected by general economic conditions in a variety of ways. For example: • As a result of the conditions in the capital markets, we may not be able to access funding. An inability to access replacement or additional sources of liquidity to fund our cash needs or to refinance or otherwise fund the repayment of our maturing debt, could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. • Tightening credit policies could adversely affect our liquidity by making it more difficult or costly for our customers to access credit, and may result in changes to our payment arrangements by credit card companies and other credit providers. • The purchase of a satellite radio subscription is discretionary. The weakening economy affected our net subscriber additions in 2008 and will likely affect the growth of our business and results of operations in 2009. • The sale and lease of vehicles with satellite radios is an important source of subscribers for us. The dramatic slowdown in auto sales negatively impacted our subscriber growth in 2008 and will likely significantly impact subscriber growth in 2009. A bankruptcy filing by one or more of the major automakers could also seriously affect our business. We need to refinance portions of our debt in the next two years, which refinancing may not be available. We have approximately $537 million of debt maturing in 2009 and 2010, including; • at SIRIUS, $1.744 million of 8 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes that mature on September 29, 2009; • at XM Holdings, approximately $227.5 million of 10% Convertible Senior Notes that mature on December 1, 2009; • at XM Holdings and XM (as co-obligors), $33.2 million of 10% Senior Secured Discount Convertible Notes that mature on December 31, 2009; and • at XM, a $350 million credit facility, which is fully drawn and $100 million of which is due in 2009, $175 million is due by May 5, 2010 and $75 million is due in May 2011. As a result of the May 2010 maturities, our existing cash balances and our cash flows from operating activities may not be sufficient to fund our projected cash needs at that time. We may not be able to access additional sources of refinancing on similar terms or pricing as those that are currently in place, or at all, or otherwise obtain other sources of funding. An inability to access replacement or additional sources of liquidity to fund our cash needs or to refinance or otherwise fund the repayment of our maturing debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. It will be more difficult to obtain additional financing if prevailing instability in the credit and financial markets continues. SIRIUS is the sole stockholder of XM Holdings and its subsidiaries and its business is operated as an unrestricted subsidiary under the agreements governing SIRIUS’ indebtedness. Under certain circumstances, SIRIUS may be unwilling or unable to contribute or loan XM capital to support its operations. Similarly, XM may be unwilling or unable to contribute or loan SIRIUS capital to support its operations. To the extent XM’s funds are insufficient to support its business, XM may be required to seek additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If XM is unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. 18 Table of Contents Our operations will also be affected by the FCC order approving the Merger. In addition, our future liquidity may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in our operations or business plans, or by the nature and extent of the benefits, if any, achieved by operating XM as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Our substantial indebtedness is adversely affecting us. As of December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.3 billion of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it: • limits our ability to borrow additional funds; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the audio entertainment industry; • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Interest costs related to our debt are substantial and, as a result, the demands on our cash resources are significant. Our indebtedness contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur more debt, pay dividends and make distributions, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into sale lease-back transactions, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets. Failure to comply with the covenants contained in the indentures and agreements governing this debt could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. XM is required to maintain a minimum cash balance of $75 million under its credit facilities, and SIRIUS is required to maintain a minimum cash balance of $35 million under those credit facilities. If XM’s or SIRIUS’ cash balance falls below these amounts, the companies would need to obtain a waiver from the lenders to avoid a default. No assurance can be given that XM and SIRIUS would be able to obtain such a waiver or otherwise avoid a default under its credit facilities. Our business depends in large part upon automakers, a number of whom have experienced a sharp decline in sales, reduced production and are experiencing extreme financial difficulties. The sale and lease of vehicles with satellite radios is an important source of subscribers for the XM and SIRIUS satellite radio services. We have agreements with every major automaker to include satellite radios in new vehicles, although these agreements do not require automakers to install specific quantities of radios. Current economic conditions, particularly the dramatic slowdown in auto sales, negatively impacted subscriber growth for both the SIRIUS and XM services in 2008 and is expected to significantly impact subscriber growth in 2009. In addition, some of the major automakers are experiencing extreme financial difficulties and are seeking government assistance. Subscription growth is dependent, in large part, on sales and vehicle production by automakers. Automotive sales and production are dependent on many factors, including the availability of consumer credit, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and fuel costs. To the extent vehicle sales by automakers continue to decline, or the penetration of factory-installed satellite radios in those vehicles is reduced, and there is no offsetting growth in vehicle sales or increased penetration by other automakers, subscriber growth for the SIRIUS and XM services will be adversely impacted. Failure of other third parties to perform could also adversely affect our business. Our business depends in part on the efforts of various other third parties, including: • manufacturers that build and distribute satellite radios; 19 Table of Contents • companies that manufacture and sell integrated circuits for satellite radios; • programming providers and on-air talent, including Howard Stern; • retailers that market and sell satellite radios and promote subscriptions to our services; and • vendors that have designed, built, support or operate important elements of our systems, such as satellites and customer service facilities. If one or more of these third parties does not perform in a sufficient or timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. In October 2005, Delphi Corporation and 38 of its domestic U.S. subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Delphi manufactures, in factories outside the United States, satellite radios for installation in various brands of vehicles. Delphi also distributes to retailers certain models of XM radios. It is unclear whether Delphi will ever emerge from bankruptcy or will be liquidated. In November 2008, Circuit City and its wholly-owned United States and Puerto Rican subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In January 2009, Circuit City liquidated all of its assets as part of its Chapter 11 proceeding and ceased doing business. In 2008, Circuit City marketed and sold a substantial number of satellite radios and promoted subscriptions to our service. The liquidation of Circuit City reduced our retail points-of-presence and contributed, in part, to the decline we experienced in sales through retailers in 2008. We do not manufacture satellite radios or accessories, and we depend on manufacturers and others for the production of radios and their component parts. If one or more manufacturers does not produce radios in a sufficient quantity to meet demand, or if such radios do not perform as advertised or are defective, sales of our services and our reputation could be adversely affected. We design, establish specifications for, source or specify parts and components for, and manage various aspects of the logistics and production of radios. As a result of these activities, we may be exposed to liabilities associated with the design, manufacture and distribution of radios that the providers of an entertainment service would not customarily be subject to, such as liabilities for design defects, patent infringement and compliance with applicable laws, as well as the costs of returned product. Failure of our satellites would significantly damage our business. We operate seven in-orbit satellites, three supporting the SIRIUS service and four supporting the XM service. The useful lives of these satellites will vary and depend on a number of factors, including: • degradation and durability of solar panels; • quality of construction; • random failure of satellite components, which could result in significant damage to or loss of a satellite; • amount of fuel the satellites consume; and • damage or destruction by electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects in space. The three orbiting SIRIUS satellites were launched in 2000. We estimate that two of the SIRIUS in-orbit satellites will have a 13 year useful life and the third in-orbit satellite will have a 15 year useful life from the time of launch. SIRIUS’ operating results would be materially adversely affected if the useful life of its satellites is significantly shorter than expected, whether as a result of a satellite failure or technical obsolescence, and SIRIUS fails to launch replacement satellites in a timely manner. The SIRIUS in-orbit satellites have experienced circuit failures on their solar arrays. The circuit failures these satellites have experienced do not affect current operations. Additional circuit failures could reduce the estimated useful life of the existing SIRIUS in-orbit satellites. If one of SIRIUS’ three satellites fails in orbit, the SIRIUS service would be impaired until such time as it successfully launches and commissions its spare satellite, which would take six months or more. If two or more of the SIRIUS satellites 20 Table of Contents fail in orbit in close proximity in time, the SIRIUS service could be suspended until replacement satellites are launched and placed into service. In such event, SIRIUS’ business would be materially impacted and it could default on its commitments. SIRIUS has entered into an agreement with Space Systems/Loral to design and construct two new satellites. The first of these new satellites is expected to be launched in the second quarter of 2009. The second of these new satellites is expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of 2011. Satellite launches have significant risks, including launch failure, damage or destruction of the satellite during launch and failure to achieve a proper orbit or operate as planned. SIRIUS’ agreement with Space Systems/Loral does not protect it against the risks inherent in a satellite launch or in-orbit operations. XM placed its XM-3 and XM-4 satellites into service during the second quarter of 2005 and during the fourth quarter of 2006, respectively. XM’s XM-1 and XM-2 satellites experienced progressive degradation problems common to early Boeing 702 class satellites and now serve as in-orbit spares. We estimate that the XM-3 and XM-4 satellites will exceed their fifteen year predicted useful lives, and that XM-1 and XM-2 satellites’ useful lives will end in 2011. An operational failure or loss of XM-3 or XM-4 would, at least temporarily, affect the quality of XM’s service, and could interrupt the continuation of its service and harm its business. XM likely would not be able to complete and launch its XM-5 satellite before late 2009 or early 2010. In the event of any satellite failure prior to that time, XM would need to rely on its back-up satellites, XM-1 and XM-2. There can be no assurance that restoring service through XM-1 and XM-2 would allow XM to maintain adequate broadcast signal strength through the in-service date of XM-5, particularly if XM-1 or XM-2 were to suffer unanticipated additional performance degradation or experience an operational failure. In addition, SIRIUS’ network of terrestrial repeaters communicates with one third party satellite and XM’s network of terrestrial repeaters communicates with one XM satellite. If the satellites communicating with the SIRIUS or XM repeater network fail unexpectedly, the services would be disrupted for several hours or longer. In the ordinary course of operation, satellites experience failures of component parts and operational and performance anomalies. Components on our in-orbit satellites have failed and from time to time we have experienced anomalies in the operation and performance of these satellites. These failures and anomalies are expected to continue in the ordinary course, and it is impossible to predict if any of these future events will have a material adverse effect on our operations or the useful life of our existing in-orbit satellites. Potential satellite losses may not be covered by insurance. We do not maintain in-orbit insurance policies covering our satellites broadcasting the SIRIUS service. We maintain in-orbit insurance covering our primary satellites broadcasting the XM service, but not on the XM back-up satellites. Any insurance proceeds will not fully cover XM’s losses. For example, the insurance covering the XM satellites does not cover the full cost of constructing, launching and insuring new satellites or XM’s in-orbit spare satellites, nor will it cover and XM does not have protection against; business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. XM’s insurance contains customary exclusions, material change and other conditions that could limit recovery under those policies. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, XM’s policies are subject to limitations involving uninsured losses, large satellite performance deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. If XM experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, this may impair its ability to make timely payments on its outstanding debt and other financial obligations. We may not be able to attract and/or retain our employees, and this may have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and achieve our business plan. We compensate employees through a combination of base salary, annual bonuses and stock based compensation, such as stock options and restricted stock units. For many employees, any annual bonus has been paid one-half in shares of our common stock. We also have made matching contributions under the Sirius 401(k) savings plan in the form of shares of our common stock. As a result, the value of our common stock represents a large portion of an employees’ annual and long-term compensation. The precipitous decline in the value of our common stock has resulted in a large number of our employees losing nearly all of the value of their prior annual bonuses, stock options, restricted stock units and employer matching contributions under 21 Table of Contents the Sirius 401(k) savings plan. In addition, we have not paid our employees, in either cash or shares of our common stock, any annual bonuses for the year ended December 31, 2008. The basic tenets of our compensation program may make it more difficult to motivate employees to integrate the two companies and to perform at levels necessary to operate our business and achieve our business plan. As a result, we also may experience a significant turnover or loss of employees and may have difficulty attracting new employees. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business. We hold FCC licenses and authorizations to operate commercial satellite radio services in the United States, including authorizations for satellites and terrestrial repeaters, and related authorizations. The FCC generally grants licenses and authorizations for a fixed term. Although we expect our licenses and authorizations to be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Any assignment or transfer of control of any of our FCC licenses or authorizations must be approved in advance by the FCC. The operation of our satellite radio systems is subject to significant regulation by the FCC under authority granted through the Communications Act and related federal law. We are required, among other things, to operate only within specified frequencies; to meet certain conditions regarding the interoperability of our satellite radios with those of other licensed satellite radio systems; to coordinate our satellite radio services with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and to coordinate our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Non-compliance by us with these requirements or other conditions or with other applicable FCC rules and regulations could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. There is no guarantee that the FCC will not modify its rules and regulations in a manner that would have a material impact on our operations. The terms of our licenses, the order of the FCC approving the Merger, and the consent decrees we entered into with the FCC require us to meet certain conditions. We have agreed to implement a number of voluntary commitments, including programming, a la carte, minority and public interest, equipment, subscription rates, and other service commitments. Non-compliance with these conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. The FCC has not yet issued final rules permitting us to operate and deploy terrestrial repeaters to fill gaps in our satellite coverage. We are operating the SIRIUS and XM terrestrial repeaters on a “non-interference” basis pursuant to grants of special temporary authority from the FCC. The FCC’s final terrestrial repeater rules may require us to reduce the power of our terrestrial repeaters or limit our ability to deploy additional repeaters. If the FCC requires us to reduce significantly the number or power of our terrestrial repeaters, this would have an adverse effect on the quality of our service in certain markets and/or cause us to alter our terrestrial repeater infrastructure at a substantial cost. If the FCC limits our ability to deploy additional terrestrial repeaters, our ability to improve any deficiencies in our service quality that may be identified in the future would be adversely affected. The anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. The Merger involved the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in two distinct locations and technologically different satellite radio platforms. We are devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating the companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. Even if we are able to integrate the business operations of SIRIUS and XM successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration. In addition, the indentures and credit agreements governing SIRIUS’ indebtedness and the indebtedness of XM contain covenants that restrict the integration of these two operating companies, which may in certain instances impede the realization of cost savings. Our stockholders have approved a reverse stock split, and a reverse stock split could have certain adverse affects. In December 2008, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to effect a reverse stock split at a ratio of not less than one-for-ten and not more than one-for-fifty. Our board of directors has authority to select an 22 Table of Contents exchange ratio within the approved range at any time prior to December 31, 2009. Our board of directors intends to effect the reverse stock split only if it determines the reverse split to be in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. A reverse stock split could have certain adverse consequences, including: • if the reverse stock split is effected and the market price of our common stock declines, the percentage decline may be greater than would occur in the absence of a reverse stock split. • there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will result in any particular price for our common stock. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common stock may not necessarily improve. • the total market capitalization of our common stock after the reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. Moreover, in the future, the market price of our common stock following the reverse stock split may not exceed or remain higher than the market price prior to the reverse stock split. • because the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock would decrease as result of the reverse stock split, the number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock may increase on a relative basis. If we issue additional shares of common stock, the ownership interest of our current stockholders would be diluted, possibly substantially. • the proportion of unissued authorized shares to issued shares could, under certain circumstances, have an anti-takeover effect. For example, the issuance of a large block of common stock could dilute the stock ownership of a person seeking to effect a change in the composition of the board of directors or contemplating a tender offer or other transaction for the combination of the company with another company. • the reverse stock split may result in some stockholders owning “odd lots” of less than 100 shares of common stock. Odd lot shares may be more difficult to sell, and brokerage commissions and other costs of transactions in odd lots are generally somewhat higher than the costs of transactions in “round lots” of even multiples of 100 shares. • holders of common stock otherwise entitled to a fractional share as a result of the reverse stock split will receive a cash payment in lieu of such fractional share. As a result, the ownership interest in the company of certain small stockholders could be terminated. We may from time to time modify our business plan, and these changes could adversely affect us and our financial condition. We regularly evaluate our plans and strategy. These evaluations often result in changes to our plans and strategy, some of which may be material and significantly change our cash requirements. These changes in our plans or strategy may include: the acquisition of unique or compelling programming; the introduction of new features or services; significant new or enhanced distribution arrangements; investments in infrastructure, such as satellites, equipment or radio spectrum; and acquisitions of third parties that own programming, distribution, infrastructure, assets, or any combination of the foregoing. Our business might never become profitable. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.7 billion. We expect our cumulative net losses to grow as we make payments under various contracts, incur marketing and subscriber acquisition costs and make interest payments on existing debt. If we are unable ultimately to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable and generate positive cash flow, either or both of the companies could default on their commitments and there is a risk that SIRIUS, XM, or both, would be unable to make the required payments on their respective indebtedness. Demand for our services may be insufficient for them to become profitable. We cannot estimate with any certainty whether consumer demand for the SIRIUS and XM service will be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of subscribers to the services. Our satellite radio services have experienced a significant decrease in new subscriptions from retail subscribers and most new subscription growth has come from automakers, many of which have experienced recent and dramatic decreases in sales. 23 Table of Contents Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of the SIRIUS and XM service will depend upon: • the willingness of consumers, on a mass-market basis, to pay subscription fees for radio; • the cost, features and availability of radios; and • the marketing and pricing strategies we employ and those employed by our competitors. If demand for our products and service does not continue to increase, we may not be able to generate enough revenues to generate positive cash flow or to become profitable. Programming is an important part of our services, and the costs to renew our programming arrangements may be more than anticipated. Third-party content is an important part of our satellite radio services, and we compete with many entities for content. We have entered into a number of important content arrangements, including agreements with Major League Baseball, the National Football League, Howard Stern and NASCAR, which require us to pay substantial sums. XM’s agreement with MLB expires at the end of the 2012 baseball season. SIRIUS’ agreement with the NFL expires at the end of the 2010-2011 NFL season; its agreement with Howard Stern expires in December 2010; and its agreement with NASCAR expires in 2011. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate renewals of one or more of these agreements, or renew such agreements at costs we believe are attractive. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional third-party content within the costs contemplated by our business plans. We must maintain and pay license fees for music rights. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, BMI, ASCAP and SESAC. These organizations negotiate with copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. We have agreements with ASCAP and SESAC through December 2011. We do not have a definitive agreement with BMI, and we continue to operate under an interim agreement with BMI. There can be no assurance that the BMI royalty fee will remain at the current level when the pending agreement is finalized. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we pay royalties to copyright owners of sound recordings. Those royalty rates may be established through negotiation or, if negotiation is unsuccessful, by the CRB. We participated in a CRB proceeding in order to set the royalty rate payable by our satellite radio services under the statutory license covering the performance of sound recordings for the six-year period starting in January 2007. SoundExchange has appealed the decision of the CRB to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Final briefs in this matter were submitted to the court in February 2009 and oral argument is scheduled for March 2009. Higher than expected costs of attracting new subscribers, higher subscriber turnover or weaker than expected advertising revenue could each adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. We are spending substantial funds on advertising and marketing and in transactions with automakers, radio manufacturers, retailers and others to obtain and attract subscribers. If the costs of attracting new subscribers are greater than expected, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. We are experiencing, and expect to continue to experience, subscriber turnover, or churn. If we are unable to retain our current subscribers, or the costs of retaining subscribers are higher than we expect, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot predict how successful we will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to their satellite radio services. Over the past several quarters, XM has retained approximately 47% to 50% of the customers who received a promotional subscription as part of the purchase or lease of a new vehicle. Over a similar period, SIRIUS has retained approximately 41% to 43% of the customers who received a prepaid subscription in connection with the purchase or lease of a new vehicle. We cannot predict the amount of churn we will experience over the longer term. XM’s and SIRIUS’ inability to retain customers who either purchase or lease new vehicles with its service beyond the promotional period, or who purchase or lease a new vehicle that includes a prepaid subscription to its service, and subscriber churn could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to generate advertising revenues is directly affected by general economic conditions, the number of subscribers to our services and the amount of time subscribers spend listening to the talk and entertainment channels or the traffic and weather services. General economic conditions are affecting our ad revenues. Our ability to generate advertising revenues also depends on several factors, including the level and type of penetration of our services, competition for advertising dollars from other media, and changes in the advertising industry and the economy generally. The companies directly compete for audiences and advertising revenues with traditional AM/FM radio stations and other media, some of which maintain longstanding relationships with advertisers and possess greater resources. Rapid technological and industry changes could make our services obsolete. The audio entertainment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving standards. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make our technologies obsolete or less competitive in the marketplace. Our broadcast studios, terrestrial repeater networks, satellite uplink facilities or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorist activities. An earthquake, tornado, flood, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could damage our broadcast studios, terrestrial repeater networks or satellite uplink facilities, interrupt the SIRIUS or XM service and harm our business. The companies do not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of their terrestrial repeater networks. The companies do have redundant facilities that can be used to assume immediately many of the functions of the broadcast studios and satellite uplink facilities in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to the satellites that transmit to the SIRIUS or XM terrestrial repeater network would likely result in degradation of the affected company’s service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in certain or all areas. Damage to our satellite uplink facilities could result in a complete loss of either the XM or SIRIUS service until the affected company could transfer its operations to its respective back-up facilities. Consumers could pirate our services. Individuals who engage in piracy may be able to obtain or rebroadcast the SIRIUS and XM satellite radio service or access the internet transmission of the services without paying the subscription fee. Although the companies use encryption technologies to mitigate the risk of signal theft, such technologies may not be adequate to prevent theft of the signals. If signal theft becomes widespread, it could harm our businesses. The unfavorable outcome of pending or future litigation could have a material adverse effect. We are parties to several legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of our business. The companies are defending all claims against them. There can be no assurance regarding a favorable outcome of any of these proceedings, or that an unfavorable outcome would not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Our business may be impaired by third-party intellectual property rights. Development of the XM and SIRIUS systems has depended largely upon the intellectual property that the two companies have developed, as well as intellectual property licensed from third parties. If the intellectual property that we have developed or use is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to and may duplicate portions of our satellite radio systems or services without liability. In addition, others may challenge, invalidate, render unenforceable or circumvent the companies’ intellectual property rights, patents or existing sublicenses or we may face significant legal costs in connection with defending and enforcing those intellectual property rights. Some of the know-how and technology we have developed, and plan to develop, is not now, nor will be, covered by U.S. patents or trade secret protections. Trade secret protection and contractual agreements may not provide adequate protection if there is any unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss of necessary technologies could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality performance standards, at greater cost or on a delayed basis, which could harm the businesses. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications, which will later mature into patents or inventions that may block our ability to operate the SIRIUS or XM system or license technologies. We may have to resort to litigation to 25 Table of Contents enforce our rights under license agreements or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights in the subject matter of those licenses. This may be expensive. Also, we may not succeed in any such litigation. Third parties may assert claims or bring suit against us for patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, or for other infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost, and diversion of effort and adverse findings in any proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties; block our ability to operate our systems or license our technology; or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and market our satellite radio systems. Electromagnetic interference from others could damage our business. The SIRIUS satellite radio service and the XM satellite radio service may be subject to interference caused by other users of radio frequencies, such as RF lighting and ultra-wideband (“UWB”) technology and Wireless Communications Service (“WCS”) users. The FCC is seeking comment on proposals by certain WCS licensees for modification of rules regarding their operations in spectrum adjacent to satellite radio, including rule changes to facilitate mobile broadband services in the WCS frequencies. We are participating actively in this proceeding and have opposed the changes requested by WCS licensees out of a concern for their impact on the reception of satellite radio service. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC proceeding, or the impact on satellite radio reception. Liberty Media Corporation has significant influence over our business and affairs and its interests may differ from ours. Liberty Media Corporation holds preferred stock that is convertible into 40% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the preferred stock held by Liberty Media we cannot take certain actions, such as issue equity or debt securities, without the consent of Liberty Media. Additionally, upon expiration of the waiting period under Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, Liberty Media has the right to designate six members of our fifteen-member Board of Directors. We expect Liberty Media to designate these directors shortly. As a result, Liberty Media has significant influence over business and affairs. The interests of Liberty Media may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock. The extent of Liberty Media’s stock ownership in us also may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of us and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us. We depend on certain on-air talent with special skills. If we cannot retain these people, our business could suffer. We employ, or independently contract with, on-air talent who maintain significant loyal audiences in or across various demographic groups. There can be no assurance that this on-air talent will remain with us or that the companies will be able to retain their respective audiences. If we lose the services of one or more of them, or fail to attract qualified replacement personnel, it could harm our business and future prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 