Risk Factors Our operations are subject to certain risk factors that may affect SQM's financial condition or results of operations. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, you should consider carefully the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that are known but we currently believe are not significant may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected by any of these risks. Risks Relating to our Business Our sales to emerging markets expose us to risks related to economic conditions and trends in those countries We sell our products in more than 100 countries around the world. In 2007, approximately 43% of our sales were made to emerging market countries: (i) approximately 14% in Central and South America, excluding Chile; (ii) approximately 19% in Chile; and (iii) approximately 10% in Asia, excluding Japan. We expect to expand our sales in these and other emerging markets in the future. The results of and prospects for our operations in these countries and other countries in which we establish operations can be expected to be dependent, in part, on the general level of political stability and economic activity and policies in those countries. Future developments in the political systems or economies of these countries or the implementation of future governmental policies in those countries, including the imposition of withholding and other taxes, restrictions on the payment of dividends or repatriation of capital or the imposition of new environmental regulations or price controls, could have a material adverse effect on our sales or operations in those countries. Volatility of world fertilizer and chemical prices and changes in production capacities could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations The prices of our products are determined principally by world prices, which in some cases have been subject to substantial volatility in recent years. World fertilizer and chemical prices vary depending upon the relationship between supply and demand at any given time. Furthermore, the supply of certain fertilizers or chemical products, including certain products that we provide, varies principally depending upon the production of the major producers (SQM included) and their respective business strategies. In particular, during 2007 world prices of potassium-based commodity fertilizers increased steadily, and these price increases have been even more pronounced during the first five months of 2008. These global price increases should result in increases in the prices of our potassium-based specialty plant nutrients and on the prices of the potassium chloride we sell to third parties. We cannot assure you that this trend will continue. During the last two decades, world iodine prices have displayed volatility in response to supply and demand conditions. Iodine prices have followed an upward trend since late 2003, reaching an average price of approximately US$23.60 per kilogram in 2007. We cannot assure you that this trend will continue. We started production of lithium carbonate from the brines of the Salar de Atacama in October 1996 and started selling lithium carbonate commercially in January 1997. Our entry into the market created an oversupply of lithium carbonate, resulting in a drop in prices from over US$3,000 per ton before our entry to less than US$2,000 per ton. At the end of 2007, prices were higher than US$6,000 per ton. We believe the increase in prices was mainly due to the high growth in demand, which had not been fully balanced by the supply of lithium carbonate. However, during 2007, new producers entered the market, helping to balance supply and demand, and therefore we believe prices may decrease. 4 Table of Contents We expect that prices for the products we manufacture will continue to be influenced, among other things, by supply and demand factors and the business strategies of major producers. Some of the major producers (including SQM) have increased or have the ability to increase production. As a result, the prices of our products may be subject to substantial volatility. A substantial decline in the prices of one or more of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to unrecoverable accounts receivable may significantly increase The strong increases observed in world fertilizer prices during the first few months of 2008 have resulted in increases in our accounts receivable. Should this trend continue, our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable may increase. Although we take steps to minimize the risk of losses from bad debt, such as the use of credit risk insurance and letters of credit for a portion of our accounts receivable, a substantial increase in such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New production of lithium carbonate in China Currently there are several projects for the expansion of lithium carbonate production capacity being developed by Chinese competitors. As there is limited information on the status of these projects we cannot make accurate projections regarding their capacities and the dates on which they will become operational. However, should significant new production volumes enter the market in the near term, we believe there could be a reduction in prices and volumes that could have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. We have an ambitious capital expenditure program that is subject to significant risks and uncertainties Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of reserves, mining and processing costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our exploitation levels and the amount of finished products we produce. We require environmental permits for our new projects. Obtaining permits in certain cases may cause significant delays in the execution and implementation of such new projects and, consequently, may require us to reassess the related risks and economic incentives. No assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain our production levels or generate sufficient cash flow, or that we will have access to sufficient investments, loans or other financing alternatives to continue our exploration, exploitation and refining activities at or above present levels, or that we will be able to implement our projects or receive the necessary permits required for them in time. Any or all of these factors may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may have a negative effect on our financial results The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and revaluations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. We transact a significant portion of our business in U.S. dollars, and the U.S. dollar is the currency of the primary economic environment in which we operate and is our functional currency for financial statement reporting purposes. A significant portion of our operating costs, however, are related to the Chilean peso. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar would affect our costs of production. As of December 31, 2007, the Chilean peso had appreciated approximately 7.2% against the U.S. dollar with respect to December 31, 2006, and this trend has continued during the first few months of 2008. As a result, our peso-denominated costs have increased, and this trend may continue in the future. Additionally, as an international company operating in Chile and several other countries, we transact a portion of our business and have assets and liabilities in Chilean pesos and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, such as the euro and the South African Rand, among others. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates of such foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Sustained high raw materials and energy prices could continue to increase our production costs and cost of goods sold We rely on certain raw materials and various sources of energy (diesel, electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and others) to manufacture our products. Purchases of raw materials that we do not produce and energy constitute a significant part of our cost of sales (approximately 13.5% in 2007). To the extent we are unable to pass on increases in raw materials and energy prices to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reserves estimates could significantly vary Our mining reserves estimates are prepared by our geologists. Estimation methods involve numerous uncertainties as to the quantity and quality of the reserves, and these could change, up or down. A downward change in the quantity and/or quality of our reserves could affect future volumes and costs of production and therefore have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Quality standards in markets where we sell our products could become stricter over time In the markets where we do business, customers may impose quality standards on our products and/or governments may enact stricter regulations for the distribution and/or use of our products. As a result, we may not be able to sell our products if we cannot meet such standards. In addition, our cost of production may increase in order to meet any such newly promulgated standards. Failure to sell our products in one or more markets or to important customers could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to many operating and other risks for which we may not be fully covered in our insurance policies Our facilities located in Chile and abroad are insured against losses, damages or other risks by insurance policies that are standard for the industry and that would reasonably be expected to be sufficient by prudent and experienced persons engaged in a business or businesses similar to ours. Nonetheless, we may be subject to certain events that may not be covered under the insurance policies, and that could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. We face significantly higher energy costs as a result of the natural gas shortage in Chile As part of a cost reduction effort, in 2001 we connected our facilities to a natural gas network. The natural gas, which originates in Argentina and is subject to a 10-year agreement, is used mainly for heat generation at our industrial facilities. Due to energy shortages in Argentina, in 2004 local authorities began to restrict exports of natural gas to Chile in order to increase the supply to their domestic markets. Additionally, even though we have long-term price agreements related to natural gas, the Argentinean government has increased taxes on gas exports and there can be no assurance that they will not do so again in the future. We suffered partial shortages of natural gas during 2004, 2005 and 2006, and during 2007, we received practically no natural gas. We believe this situation will continue and that during 2008 we will likely receive little or no natural gas from Argentina. Most of our industrial equipment that uses natural gas can also operate on fuel oil, and the remaining equipment can operate on diesel. However, the cost of fuel oil and diesel is significantly higher than the cost of natural gas, and therefore we have recently faced significantly higher energy costs. We expect this situation to continue, and therefore we expect the reduction in our natural gas supply to continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Decline in the supply of natural gas is negatively affecting the supply of electricity in the Northern Power Grid The natural gas supply crisis discussed above has placed the Northern Power Grid (Sistema Interconectado del Norte Grande or “SING”) under significant stress. The combination of the lack of natural gas received from Argentina during 2007 and additional events, such as damages from an earthquake in November 2007, have made this situation even more critical. Continued stress on the Northern Power Grid could lead to a system failure that would then affect the supply of electricity. Restrictions on the Company’s electricity consumption could affect our operations, potentially decreasing our production volumes and increasing our production costs. Decline in the supply of natural gas and increasing global oil prices could negatively affect our electricity contracts As the supply of natural gas continues to be uncertain, as discussed above, and oil prices continue to increase, we are faced with the potential early termination, partial amendment or temporary suspension of our long-term electricity supply contracts. We maintain contracts with two main utilities in Chile, Electroandina S.A. and Norgener S.A., and both have sought relief from the terms of their electricity supply agreements, arguing that certain unforeseen events have restricted the supply and increased the price of gas from Argentina. As a result of the requests, we entered into negotiations resulting in new tariffs that have a negative effect on our results of operations. Further increases in the cost of energy could prompt these companies to once again seek to modify, terminate or suspend these contracts. If that were to happen, and these companies were to prevail in any resulting arbitration proceedings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. During 2007, purchases of electricity represented approximately 4.1% of our cost of sales. We are exposed to labor strikes and liabilities that could impact our production levels and costs Of our permanent employees in Chile, 70% are represented by 31 labor unions, which represent their members in collective bargaining negotiations with the Company. Accordingly, we are exposed to labor strikes that could impact our production levels. Should a strike occur and extend for a sustained period of time, we could be faced with increased costs and even disruption in our product flow that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2006, the Chilean Congress amended the Labor Code, and effective January 15, 2007, certain changes were made, affecting companies that hire subcontractors to provide certain services. This new law, known as the “Law on Subcontracting”, establishes a new requirement that applies in the event of accidents in the workplace. The law states that when a serious accident occurs, the company must halt work at the site where the accident took place until authorities from the National Geology and Mining Service inspect the site and prescribe the measures the company must take to prevent future risks. Work may not be resumed until the company has taken the prescribed measures, and the period of time before work may be resumed may last for a number of hours, days, or longer. The effects of this new law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Pending lawsuits could adversely impact us We are party to lawsuits and arbitrations involving commercial matters. Although we intend to defend our positions vigorously, our defense of these actions may not be successful. Judgment in or settlement of these lawsuits may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See Item 8.A.7. Legal Proceedings and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Furthermore, our strategy of being a world leader includes entering into commercial and production alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions to improve our global competitive position. As these operations increase in complexity and are carried out in different jurisdictions, our Company might be subject to legal proceedings that, if settled against us, could have a significant impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Chile As we are a Chilean-based company, we are exposed to Chilean political risks The prospects and results of operations of the Company could be affected by changes in policies of the Chilean government, other political developments in or affecting Chile, and regulatory and legal changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities, over which the Company has no control. Changes in mining and water rights laws or in regulations affecting port concessions could affect our operating costs We conduct our mining (including brine extraction) operations under exploitation and exploration concessions granted in accordance with provisions of the Chilean Constitution, and the Constitutional Mining Law and related statutes. Our exploitation concessions essentially grant a perpetual right to conduct mining operations in the areas covered by the concessions, provided that we pay annual concession fees (with the exception of the Salar de Atacama rights, which have been leased to us until 2030). Our exploration concessions permit us to explore for mineral resources on the land covered thereby for a specified period of time, and to subsequently request a corresponding exploitation concession. In addition, we operate port facilities at Tocopilla, Chile, for the shipment of our products and the delivery of certain raw materials, pursuant to concessions granted by Chilean regulatory authorities. These concessions are renewable provided that we use such facilities as authorized and pay annual concession fees. Any significant changes to any of these concessions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We hold water rights that are key to our business development. These rights were obtained from the Chilean Water Authority for a supply of water from rivers and wells near our production facilities, which we believe are sufficient to meet current operating requirements. However, the Water Code is subject to changes, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Law No. 20,017, published on June 16, 2005, modified the Chilean laws relating to water rights. Under certain conditions, these modifications allow the constitution of permanent water rights of up to 2 liters per second for each well built prior to June 30, 2004, in the locations where we conduct our mining operations. Such rights may be constituted in favor of parties that requested water rights prior to January 1, 2000, when such request had not yet been processed as of June 16, 2005. In constituting these new water rights, the law does not factor in the availability of water, or how the new rights may affect holders of existing rights. Therefore, the amount of water we can effectively extract based on our existing rights could be reduced if these additional rights are exercised. These and other potential future changes to the Water Code could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chilean government could levy additional taxes on corporations operating in Chile In 2005, the Chilean Congress approved Law No. 20,026 (also known as the “Royalty Law”) establishing a royalty tax to be applied to mining activities developed in Chile. We cannot assure you that the way in which the Royalty Law is interpreted and applied will not change in the future. In addition, the Chilean Government may decide to levy additional taxes on mining companies or other corporations in Chile. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations could expose us to higher costs, liabilities, claims and failure to meet current and future production targets Our operations in Chile are subject to a variety of national and local regulations relating to environmental protection. The main environmental laws in Chile are the Health Code and Law No. 19,300, which we refer to as the “Chilean Environmental Framework Law.” The Chilean Environmental Framework Law created the Comisión Nacional del Medio Ambiente (“National Environmental Commission” or “CONAMA”), which is the government agency in charge of supervising the due compliance with the Chilean Environmental Framework Law. Under this law, we are required to conduct environmental impact studies of any future projects or activities (or their significant modifications) that may affect the environment. CONAMA evaluates environmental impact studies submitted for its approval and oversees the implementation of projects. The Chilean Environmental Framework Law also enables private citizens, public agencies or local authorities to challenge projects that may affect the environment, either before these projects are executed or once they are already operating. Enforcement remedies available include fines and temporary or permanent closure of facilities. 8 Table of Contents Chilean environmental regulations have become increasingly stringent in recent years, both with respect to the approval of new projects and in connection with the implementation and development of projects already approved. This trend is likely to continue. Furthermore, recently implemented environmental regulations have created uncertainty because rules and enforcement procedures for these regulations have not been fully developed. Given public interest in environmental enforcement matters, these regulations or their application may also be subject to political considerations that are beyond our control. We continuously monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and have, from time to time, made modifications to our facilities to minimize any adverse impact. Except for particulate matter levels exceeding permissible levels in María Elena facilities (see Item 4.B. Business Overview—Safety, Health and Environmental Regulations), we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations in Chile of which we are aware. Future developments in the creation or implementation of environmental requirements, or in their interpretation, could result in substantially increased capital, operation or compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with our current investments at the Salar de Atacama we have obtained approval for an environmental impact assessment study that allows us to increase brine and water extraction, subject to a rigorous environmental monitoring system. The success of these investments is dependent on the behavior of the ecosystem variables being monitored over time. If the behavior of these variables in future years does not meet environmental requirements, our operation may be subject to important restrictions by the authorities on the maximum allowable amounts of brine and water extraction. In connection with our future investments in nitrate and iodine operations, we have submitted and expect to submit several environmental impact assessment studies. The success of these investments is dependent on the approval of such submissions by the pertinent governmental authorities. Furthermore, the future development of the Company depends on our ability to sustain future production levels, which require additional investments and the submission of the corresponding environmental impact assessment studies. If we fail to obtain approval, our ability to maintain production at specified levels will be seriously impaired, thus having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our worldwide operations are also subject to environmental regulations. Since laws and regulations in the different jurisdictions in which we operate may change, we cannot guarantee that future laws, or changes to existing laws, will not materially impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our financial statements are reported, and our dividends are declared, based on Chilean GAAP, which generally differs from U.S. GAAP There are important differences between Chilean GAAP and U.S. GAAP. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those that are reported based on U.S. GAAP. In particular, our earnings and the amount of dividends that we declare under Chilean GAAP may be subject to a higher degree of fluctuation as compared to U.S. GAAP, due to accounting pronouncements or other modifications required under Chilean GAAP. Note 29 to the consolidated Financial Statements includes a description of differences and a reconciliation of the net income and shareholders’ equity amounts reported under Chilean GAAP to U.S. GAAP. 9 Table of Contents Risks related to our financial activities Interest rate fluctuations may have a material impact on our financial results We maintain short and long-term debt priced at LIBOR, plus a spread. As we do not have derivative instruments to hedge the LIBOR, we are subject to fluctuations in this rate. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 36% of our financial debt priced at LIBOR, and therefore significant increases in the rate could impact our financial condition. Risks related to our shares and to our ADSs The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Chilean peso exchange rate Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs is conducted in Chilean pesos. The depositary will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares in pesos. The depositary will convert such pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect of ADSs. If the value of the peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will decrease. Developments in other emerging markets could materially affect the value of our ADSs The Chilean financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries or regions of the world. Although economic conditions are different in each country or region, investor reaction to developments in one country or region can have significant effects on the securities of issuers in other countries and regions, including Chile and Latin America. Events in other parts of the world may have an adverse effect on Chilean financial and securities markets and on the value of our ADSs. The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean securities markets could affect the ability of our shareholders to sell our ADSs The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than the major securities markets in the United States. The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean markets could increase the price volatility of our ADSs and may impair the ability of a holder to sell our ADSs into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time he wishes to do so. Our share price may react negatively to future acquisitions and investments As world leaders in our core businesses, part of our strategy is to constantly look for opportunities that will allow us to consolidate and strengthen our competitive position. Pursuant to this strategy, we may from time to time, evaluate and eventually carry out acquisitions relating to any of our businesses or to new businesses in which we believe we may have sustainable competitive advantages. Depending on our capital structure at the time of such acquisitions, we may need to raise significant debt and/or equity which will affect our financial condition and future cash flows. Any change in our financial condition could affect our results of operations, negatively impacting our share price. You may be unable to enforce rights under U.S. Securities Laws Because we are a Chilean company subject to Chilean law, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in companies incorporated in the United States, and you may not be able to enforce or may have difficulty enforcing rights currently in effect under U.S. Federal or State securities laws. 10 Table of Contents Our Company is a "sociedad anónima abierta" (open stock corporation) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Chile. Most of SQM's directors and officers reside outside the United States, principally in Chile. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, if any of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs, were to bring a lawsuit against our officers or directors in the United States, it may be difficult for them to effect service of legal process within the United States upon these persons. Likewise, it may be difficult for them to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States against them in United States courts. In addition, there is no treaty between the United States and Chile providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, Chilean courts have enforced judgments rendered in the United States, provided that the Chilean court finds that the United States court respected basic principles of due process and public policy. Nevertheless, there is doubt as to whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile in the first instance on the basis of liability based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. As preemptive rights may be unavailable for our ADS holders, they have the risk of their holdings being diluted if we issue new stock Chilean laws require companies to offer their shareholders preemptive rights whenever selling new shares of capital stock. Preemptive rights permit holders to maintain their existing ownership percentage in a company by subscribing for additional shares. If we increase our capital by issuing new shares, a holder may subscribe for up to the number of shares that would prevent dilution of the holder's ownership interest. If we issue preemptive rights, United States holders of ADSs would not be able to exercise their rights unless a registration statement under the Securities Act were effective with respect to such rights and the shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from registration were available. We cannot assure holders of ADSs that we will file a registration statement or that an exemption from registration will be available. We may, in our absolute discretion, decide not to prepare and file such a registration statement. If our holders were unable to exercise their preemptive rights because SQM did not file a registration statement, the depositary would attempt to sell their rights and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to them, after deducting the depositary's fees and expenses. If the depositary could not sell the rights, they would expire and holders of ADSs would not realize any value from them. In either case, ADS holders' equity interest in SQM would be diluted in proportion to the increase in SQM's capital stock. If the Company were classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company there could be adverse consequences for U.S. investors We believe that we were not classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2007. Characterization as a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor in our shares or ADSs. For example, if we (or any of our subsidiaries) are a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we (or any of our subsidiaries or portfolio companies) are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our (or their) income and assets from time to time. See Item 10. E Taxation – United States Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 