Risk Factors Our operations are subject to certain risk factors that may affect SQM's financial condition or results of operations. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, you should consider carefully the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected by any of these risks. Risks Relating to our Business Our sales to emerging markets expose us to risks related to economic conditions and trends in those countries We sell our products in more than 100 countries around the world. In 2005, approximately 39% of our sales were made to emerging market countries: (i) approximately 14% in Central and South America, excluding Chile, specifically in countries such as Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and Peru; (ii) approximately 18% in Chile; and (iii) approximately 7% in Asia, excluding Japan. We expect to expand our sales in these and other emerging markets in the future. The results and prospects for our operations in these countries and other countries in which we establish operations can be expected to be dependent, in part, on the general level of political stability and economic activity and policies in those countries. Future developments in the political systems or economies of these countries or the implementation of future governmental policies in those countries, including the imposition of withholding and other taxes, restrictions on the payment of dividends or repatriation of capital or the imposition of new environmental regulations or price controls, could have a material adverse effect on our sales or operations in those countries. Volatility of world fertilizer and chemical prices and changes in production capacities could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations The prices of our products are determined principally by world prices, which in some cases have been subject to substantial volatility in recent years. World fertilizer and chemical prices vary depending upon the relationship between supply and demand at any given time. Further, the supply of certain fertilizers or chemical products, including certain products that we provide, varies principally depending upon the production of the few major producers (including us) and their respective business strategies. In particular, world iodine prices declined from approximately US$18.40 per kilogram for large purchases in early 1990 to less than US$8.00 per kilogram for large purchases in June 1994. The price increased to approximately US$18.00 in 1999, and subsequently it began to decline, reaching approximately US$12.50 during early 2003. By late 2003 and during 2004 prices reversed the downward trend and began to increase. The average price for 2004 reached approximately US$14.50 per kilogram and it has continued to increase to an average of approximately US$19.00 per kilogram for 2005. We cannot assure you that this trend will continue. We started production of lithium carbonate from the Atacama Salar brines in October 1996 and started selling lithium carbonate commercially in January 1997. Our entrance into the market created an oversupply of lithium carbonate, resulting in a drop in prices from over US$3,000 per ton before our entrance to less than US$2,000 per ton. Currently, prices are higher than US$3,000 per ton. We believe the increase in prices is mainly due to the high growth in demand that has not been fully balanced by the supply of lithium carbonate. We cannot assure you that this trend will continue. We expect that prices for the products we manufacture will continue to be influenced, among other things, by similar supply and demand factors and the business strategies of major producers. Some of the major producers (including us) have increased or have the ability to increase production. As a result, the prices of our products may be subject to substantial volatility. A substantial decline in the prices of one or more of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 Back to Contents We have an ambitious capital expenditure program that is subject to significant risks and uncertainties Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of reserves, mining and processing costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase the amount of reserves that we exploit and the amount of finished products we produce. We require environmental permits for our new projects. Obtaining permits in certain cases may cause significant delays in the execution and implementation of such new projects and, consequently, may require us to reassess the related risks and economic incentives. No assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain our production levels or generate sufficient cash flow, or that we will have access to sufficient investments, loans or other financing alternatives to continue our exploration, exploitation and refining activities at or above present levels, or that we will be able to implement our projects or receive the necessary permits required for them in time. Any or all of these factors may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may have a negative effect on our financial results The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and revaluations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. We transact a significant portion of our business in U.S. dollars, and the U.S. dollar is the currency of the primary economic environment in which we operate and is our functional currency for financial statement reporting purposes. A significant portion of our operating costs, however, are related to the Chilean peso. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar would affect our costs of production. Additionally, as an international company operating in Chile and several other countries, we transact a portion of our business and have assets and liabilities in Chilean pesos and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, such as the Euro, the South African Rand and the Mexican Peso. As a result, fluctuation in the exchange rate of such foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sustained high raw material and energy prices increase our production costs and cost of goods sold We rely on certain raw materials and various sources of energy (diesel, electricity, natural gas and others) to manufacture our products. Purchases of raw materials that we do not produce and energy constitute a significant part of our cost of sales (approximately 11.7% in 2005). To the extent we are unable to pass on increases in raw materials and energy prices to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reserves estimates could significantly vary Our mining reserves estimates are prepared by our geologists. Estimation methods involve numerous uncertainties as to the quantity and quality of the reserves, and these could change, up or down. A downward change in the quantity and/or quality of our reserves could affect future volumes and cost of production and therefore have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Quality standards in markets where we sell our products could become stricter over time Governments and customers in several of the markets where we do business impose quality standards on our products. As a result, we may not be able to sell our products if we cannot meet such standards. In addition, our cost of production may increase in order to meet any such newly-promulgated standards. Failure to sell our products in one or more markets or to important customers could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. 5 Back to Contents Our business is subject to many operational and other risks for which we may not be fully covered in our insurance policies Our facilities located in Chile and abroad are insured against losses, damages or other risks by insurance policies that are standard for the industry and that would reasonably be expected to be sufficient by prudent and experienced persons engaged in a business or businesses similar to those of our business. Nonetheless, we may be subject to certain events that may not be covered under the insurance policies, and that could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. The continuity of our natural gas supply is dependent on Argentinean authorities’ policy As part of a cost reduction effort, in 2001 we interconnected our facilities to a natural gas network. The natural gas, which originates in Argentina and is subject to a 10-year agreement, is used mainly for heat generation at our industrial facilities. Due to energy shortages in Argentina, local authorities decided to restrict exports of natural gas to Chile in order to increase the supply to their domestic markets. Additionally, even though we have long-term price agreements related to natural gas, the Argentinean government increased taxes on gas exports and there can be no assurance that they will not do it again in the future. We suffered partial shortages of natural gas during 2004 and 2005, and the shortages have increased and continued in the second quarter of 2006, reaching more than 50% of the normal supply. Considering what has happened in the second quarter of 2006 and the public statements made by Argentina and Bolivia -which in turn supplies natural gas to Argentina-, we believe further cutbacks in the supply of natural gas are likely in the future. To mitigate this, we have adopted measures intended to limit the effects of any further decrease in the natural gas supply. Most of our industrial equipment that uses natural gas can also operate on fuel oil and the remaining equipment can operate on diesel. The costs of using fuel oil and diesel are significantly higher than natural gas. The extent to which we incur increased costs as a result of decreases in the natural gas supply will depend on the volume of such a decrease and on the duration of the period during which natural gas supplies are restricted, and therefore, we cannot estimate the exact economic impact of future natural gas supply reductions. However, further increases in prices of natural gas or a sustained reduction in our natural gas supply could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2005, purchases of natural gas represented approximately 1.4% of our cost of sales. Decline in the supply of natural gas and increasing global oil prices could negatively affect our electricity contracts As natural gas supply continues to be uncertain, as discussed above, and oil prices continue to increase, we are faced with potential revisions to our long-term electricity supply agreements. We maintain contracts with two main utilities in Chile, Electroandina S.A. and AES Norgener S.A., and both have requested revision of the tariffs involved. As a result of such request we have commenced arbitration between us and Electroandina and Norgener. Although we believe tariffs should not be modified, to the extent that our electricity contracts are in fact revised and modified, we may suffer increased costs, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations. During 2005, purchases of electricity represented approximately 2.8% of our cost of sales. We are exposed to labor strikes and liabilities that could impact our production levels and costs Of our permanent employees in Chile, 72% are represented by 31 labor unions, which represent their members in collective bargaining negotiations with the Company. Accordingly, we are exposed to labor strikes that could impact our production levels. Should a strike occur and extend for a sustained period of time, we could be faced with increased costs and even disruption in our product flow that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 6 Back to Contents The Chilean Congress has amended the Labor Code and some of such amendments will be soon clarified or re-amended through a Presidential veto. Nevertheless, the new wording will contemplate that the work-owner shall be jointly liable for some benefits of the subcontractor’s employees being hired for the performance of such work and thus increasing the owner’s responsibilities and costs. Our water supply could be affected by regulatory changes and/or natural problems Although we have not experienced significant difficulties obtaining the necessary water to conduct our operations, there can be no assurance that we will not have problems in securing our water supply due to new environmental regulations or natural depletion of water resources that could affect our operations, negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pending lawsuits could adversely impact us We are party to lawsuits and arbitrations involving commercial matters. Although we intend to defend our position vigorously, our defense of these actions may not be successful. Some judgment in or settlement of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See Item 8.A.7. Legal Proceedings and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Furthermore, our strategy of being a world leader includes carrying out commercial and production alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions to improve our global competitive position. As these operations increase in complexity and are carried out in different jurisdictions, our Company might be subject to legal proceedings that, if settled against us, may have a significant impact in the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Chile As we are a Chilean-based company, we are exposed to Chilean political risks The prospects and results of operations of the Company could be affected by changes in policies of the Chilean government, other political developments in or affecting Chile, and regulatory and legal changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities, over which the Company has no control. Changes in mining and water rights laws or in regulations affecting port concessions could affect our operating costs We conduct our mining (including brine extraction) operations under exploitation and exploration concessions granted pursuant to judicial proceedings in accordance with provisions of the Chilean Constitution and the Constitutional Mining Law and related statutes. Our exploitation concessions essentially grant a perpetual right to conduct mining operations in the areas covered by the concessions, provided that we pay annual concession fees (with the exception of the Atacama Salar rights, which have been leased to us until 2030). Our exploration concessions permit us to explore for mineral resources on the land covered thereby for a specified period of time, and to subsequently request a corresponding exploitation concession. We also hold water rights obtained from the Chilean Water Authority for a supply of water from rivers and wells near our production facilities, which we believe is sufficient to meet current and anticipated operational requirements. We operate port facilities at Tocopilla, Chile, for the shipment of our products and the delivery of certain raw materials, pursuant to concessions granted by Chilean regulatory authorities. These concessions are renewable provided that we use such facilities as authorized and pay annual concession fees. Any significant changes to these concessions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following recent changes in Chilean law are also likely to affect our operations: The Chilean Congress recently approved a modification to Chilean laws relating to water rights (the “Water Code”). The changes to the Water Code include establishing annual fee payments for owners of water rights that do not use the water associated with them. This fee does not affect the holder’s right to use aquifers. The criteria used to determine what rights or what part of such rights would be subject to this annual fee relate to whether the resource is consumed or re-injected into the stream after its use (defined as the water right’s “consumptive condition”), whether the use of the resource is sporadic or permanent (frequency of use) and the geographical location of the intake points relative to an area’s overall water supply. The referred changes will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Nevertheless, as the Company maintains water rights that are key to its business development, further changes to the Water Code could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Back to Contents On May 18, 2005, the Chilean Congress approved Law No. 20,026, also known as the “Royalty Law,” which established a royalty to be applied to mining activities developed in Chile, levied on mining companies whose sales are equal to or greater than the equivalent value of 12,000 metric tons of fine copper (MFT), as determined according to the London Metal Exchange Grade A copper cash quotation. This new mining royalty, which will be applied from 2006 onwards, is levied on the “taxable operating income” (as this term is defined in Law No. 20,026) of the mining company, at a rate that varies from 0.5% up to 5%, depending on the consolidated annual sales. If similar changes are enacted in the future they may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Environmental laws and regulations could expose us to higher costs, liabilities, claims and failure to meet current and future production targets Our operations in Chile are subject to a variety of national and local regulations relating to environmental protection. The main environmental laws in Chile are the Health Code and Law No. 19,300, which we refer to as the “Chilean Environmental Framework Law.” The Chilean Environmental Framework Law created the Comisión Nacional del Medio Ambiente (National Environmental Commission or CONAMA), which is the governmental agency in charge of supervising the due compliance with the Chilean Environmental Framework Law. Under this law, we are required to conduct environmental impact studies of any future projects or activities (or their significant modifications) that may affect the environment. CONAMA evaluates environmental impact studies submitted for its approval and oversees the implementation of projects. The Chilean Environmental Framework Law also enables private citizens, public agencies or local authorities to challenge projects that may affect the environment, either before these projects are executed or once they are already operating. Enforcement remedies available include temporary or permanent closure of facilities and fines. Chilean environmental regulations have become increasingly stringent in recent years, both in respect of the approval of new projects and in connection with the implementation and development of projects already approved. This trend is likely to continue. Furthermore, recently implemented environmental regulations have created uncertainty because rules and enforcement procedures for these regulations have not been fully developed. Given public interest in environmental enforcement matters, these regulations or their application may also be subject to political considerations that are beyond our control. We continuously monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and have, from time to time, made modifications to our facilities to minimize any adverse impact. Except for particulate matter levels exceeding permissible levels in María Elena facilities (see “Business—Chilean Government Regulations” and “Business—Environmental Regulations”), we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations in Chile that we are aware of. Future developments in the creation or implementation of environmental requirements, or in their interpretation, could result in substantially increased capital, operation or compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with our current investments at the Atacama Salar we have submitted an environmental impact assessment study. The success of these investments is dependent on the approval of said submission by the pertinent governmental authorities. Failure to obtain approval of this submission could seriously impair our ability to maintain our current production levels or increase production capacities in the near future, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 8 Back to Contents Additionally, in connection with our future investments in the nitrate and iodine operations, we have submitted and expect to submit several environmental impact assessment studies. The success of these investments is dependent on the approval of said submissions by the pertinent governmental authorities. Failure to obtain approval for one or more of these submissions could seriously impair our ability to maintain our future production levels or increase production capacities in the near future, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the future development of the Company depends on our ability to sustain future production levels, which require additional investments and the submission of the corresponding environmental impact assessment studies. Again, if we fail to obtain approval, our ability to maintain production at specified levels will be seriously impaired, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our worldwide operations are also subject to environmental regulations. Since laws and regulations in the different jurisdictions in which we operate may change, we cannot guarantee that future laws, or changes to existing ones, will not materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our financial statements are reported, and our dividends are declared, based on Chilean GAAP, which generally differs from U.S. GAAP There are important differences between Chilean GAAP and U.S. GAAP. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those that are reported based on U.S. GAAP. In particular, our earnings and the amount of dividends that we declare under Chilean GAAP may be subject to a higher degree of fluctuation as compared to U.S. GAAP, due to accounting pronouncements or other modifications required under Chilean GAAP. Note 29 to the consolidated Financial Statements includes a description of differences and a reconciliation of the net income and shareholder’s equity amounts reported under Chilean GAAP to U.S. GAAP. Risks related to our financial activities Interest rate fluctuations may have a material impact on our financial results We maintain short and long-term debt priced at Libor, plus a spread. As we do not have derivative instruments to hedge the Libor, we are subject to fluctuations in this rate. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 47% of our financial debt priced at Libor, and therefore significant increases in the rate could impact our financial condition. Risks related to our shares and to our ADSs The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Chilean peso exchange rate Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs is conducted in Chilean pesos. The depositary will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares in pesos. The depositary will convert such pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect of ADSs. If the value of the peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will decrease. Developments in other emerging markets could materially affect our ADSs value The Chilean financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries or regions of the world. Although economic conditions are different in each country or region, investor reaction to developments in one country or region can have significant effects on the securities of issuers in other countries and regions, including Chile and Latin America. Events in other parts of the world may have an adverse effect on Chilean financial and securities markets and on the value of our ADSs. 9 Back to Contents The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean securities markets could affect the ability of our shareholders to sell our ADSs The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than the major securities markets in the United States. The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean markets could increase the price volatility of our ADSs and may impair the ability of a holder to sell our ADSs into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time he or she wishes to do so. Our share price may react negatively to future acquisitions and investments As part of our strategy as world leaders in our core businesses, we are constantly looking for opportunities that will allow us to consolidate and strengthen our competitive position. Pursuant to this strategy, we may from time to time, evaluate and eventually carry out acquisitions in any of the businesses in which we are. Depending on our then current capital structure, we may need to raise significant debt and/or equity which will affect our financial condition and future cash flows. Any change in our financial condition could affect our results of operations, negatively impacting our share price. You may be unable to enforce rights under U.S. Securities Laws Because we are a Chilean company subject to Chilean law, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in companies incorporated in the United States, and you may not be able to enforce or may have difficulty enforcing rights currently in effect on U.S. Federal or State securities laws. Our Company is a “sociedad anónima abierta” (open stock corporation) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Chile. Most of SQM’s directors and officers reside outside the United States, principally in Chile. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, if any of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs, were to bring a lawsuit against our officers or directors in the United States, it may be difficult for them to effect service of legal process within the United States upon these persons. Likewise, it may be difficult for them to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is no treaty between the United States and Chile providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, Chilean courts have enforced judgments rendered in the United States, provided that the Chilean court finds that the United States court respected basic principles of due process and public policy. Nevertheless, there is doubt whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile in the first instance on the basis of liability based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. As preemptive rights may be unavailable for our ADS holders, they have the risk of being diluted if we issue new stock Chilean laws require companies to offer their shareholders preemptive rights whenever selling new shares of capital stock. Preemptive rights permit holders to maintain their existing ownership percentage in a company by subscribing for additional shares. If we increase our capital by issuing new shares, a holder may subscribe for up to the number of shares that would prevent dilution of the holder’s ownership interest. If we issue preemptive rights, United States holders of ADSs would not be able to exercise their rights unless a registration statement under the Securities Act were effective with respect to such rights and the shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from registration were available. We cannot assure holders of ADSs that we will file a registration statement or that an exemption from registration will be available. We may, in our absolute discretion, decide not to prepare and file such a registration statement. If our holders were unable to exercise their preemptive rights because SQM did not file a registration statement, the depositary would attempt to sell their rights and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to them, after deducting the depositary’s fees and expenses. If the depositary could not sell the rights, they would expire and holders of ADSs would not realize any value from them. In either case, ADS holders’ equity interest in SQM would be diluted in proportion to the increase in SQM’s capital stock. 10 Back to Contents ITEM 