risk factors that may affect SQM’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that are known but we currently believe are not significant may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected by any of these risks. Risks Relating to our Business We could be subject to numerous risks as a result of ongoing investigations by the Chilean Internal Revenue Service and the Chilean Public Prosecutor in relation to certain payments made by SQM between the tax years 2009 and 2014 The SII has been conducting tax investigations related to the payment of invoices by companies, including SQM, for services that may not have been properly supported. The Chilean Public Prosecutor (Ministerio Público) has been conducting related inquiries to determine whether such payments may be linked with alleged violations of political contribution laws involving a variety of Chilean companies, including SQM, and government officials. 8 On February 26, 2015, SQM’s Board of Directors resolved to establish an ad-hoc committee of the Board of Directors (the “ad-hoc Committee”) authorized to conduct an internal investigation relating to the issues referred to in the above paragraph and to retain such independent external advice as it deemed appropriate. The original members of the ad-hoc Committee were José María Eyzaguirre B., Juan Antonio Guzmán M. and Wolf von Appen B. The ad-hoc Committee has engaged its own lawyers from Chile and the United States and forensic accountants from the United States to assist as it proceeds with its internal review. On March 12, 2015, José María Eyzaguirre B. resigned from the ad-hoc Committee and his position was subsequently filled by Hernán Büchi B. On March 16, 2015, the Board of Directors decided to terminate the employment contract of the Company’s former CEO, Patricio Contesse G. This followed his failure to cooperate with the ad-hoc Committee’s investigation. On March 17, 2015, three members of the Board of Directors resigned, all of whom had been nominated by Potash Corp., one of SQM’s two principal shareholder groups. Potash Corp. issued a press release stating that the directors resigned because of their concern that they could not ensure that the Company was conducting an appropriate investigation and collaborating effectively with the Public Prosecutor. On March 20, 2015, the Company identified to the SII approximately US$11 million in payments of invoices that may not have been properly supported by services rendered and therefore may not qualify as tax expenses under the Chilean tax code. These payments originated from the office of the former CEO during the six-year tax period from 2009 to 2014. The statute of limitations under Chilean law for tax claims is up to six years, during which period the former CEO had an annual discretionary budget covering the Company and its subsidiaries of approximately US$6 million. On March 23, 2015, the SII, based on the Income Tax Law (Ley de Impuesto a La Renta) filed a criminal claim against the Company’s former CEO and current CEO and CFO in their capacities as the Company’s tax representatives relating to the US$11 million in payments referred to above. This and subsequent related claims filed by the SII are subject to review by the Public Prosecutor in order to determine whether to pursue charges against any of the parties in their personal capacities. On March 30, 2015, the Company submitted amendments to its tax returns for the 2009 to 2014 tax years and has paid taxes and interest relating to such amended returns totaling approximately US$7 million. The aggregate amount was approximately evenly distributed over the six-year period, but as the amounts were inconsequential in each individual year, the Company recorded a provision for the aggregate amount in the “other expenses” line-item of the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2014. On March 31, 2015, the SVS filed an administrative claim against five current or former members of the Board of Directors, alleging that they did not release information in a timely manner relating to the payments that are subject to the tax claim referred to above. On April 24, 2015, the Company announced that it had identified up to an additional US$2 million in payments by its subsidiaries during the same six-year tax period that were authorized by the former CEO and that also may have been insufficiently supported. On the same date, new members were elected to the Board of Directors at the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, including three new members that were nominated by Potash Corp., and the ad-hoc Committee was subsequently reconstituted by Board of Directors members Robert A. Kirkpatrick, Wolf von Appen B. and Edward J. Waitzer. On April 30, 2015, the Public Prosecutor, after reviewing the claims filed by the SII, informed the Company’s former CEO that it was formally investigating allegations that he approved the payment of the invoices that were not properly supported by services rendered and in connection therewith made intentionally false or incomplete declarations or used fraudulent procedures designed to conceal or disguise the true amount of transactions or to circumvent taxes. If, as a result of the formal investigation, the former CEO is charged and finally adjudicated responsible, the Company may also be subject to the payment of a fine by the Chilean Criminal Court (Octavo Tribunal de Juicio Oral en lo Penal de Santiago) totaling 50% to 300% of the tax paid. The Company estimates that no provision is needed at this stage. 9 On May 11, 2015, the SII filed an additional criminal claim against the former CEO and the current CEO and CFO in their capacities as the Company’s tax representatives alleging violations of the Chilean Inheritance and Donations Law (Ley sobre Impuesto a Las Herencias, Asignaciones y Donaciones). The claim states that the Company paid two invoices in 2009 and 2010 totaling approximately US$175,000 that are alleged to have been improperly supported. The claim states that these payments should have been classified as donations, and appropriate taxes should have been paid. These payments were accounted for in the amended tax returns filed with the SII on March 30, 2015. This claim is subject to review by the Public Prosecutor in order to determine whether to pursue charges against any of the parties in their personal capacities. Class action complaints have been filed in the United States against the Company, our former CEO and current CEO and CFO, alleging violations of U.S. securities laws based on the failure to timely disclose matters related to the subject matter of the various Chilean investigations. The investigation and the inquiries by the Chilean regulatory authorities have not been completed. We cannot predict the outcome or the duration of these investigations. We could be subject to civil, criminal or regulatory proceedings in Chile and we could be subject to civil, criminal or regulatory proceedings outside of Chile, including for violation of U.S. securities or anti-corruption laws. We have been in communications with our regulators in Chile and the United States. Responding to our regulator’s inquiries and any future civil, criminal or regulatory inquiries or proceedings could divert our management’s attention from day-to-day operations. Additionally, expenses that may arise from responding to such inquiries or proceedings, our review of responsive materials, any related litigation or other associated activities may be significant. Current and former employees, officers and directors may seek indemnification, advancement or reimbursement of expenses from us, including attorneys’ fees, with respect to the current inquiry or future proceedings related to this matter. We may be required to pay material damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. If, as a result of further investigations, it is determined that our financial statements were materially incorrect, we could be required to restate financial information for prior reporting periods. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and the prices of our securities. However, the Company’s management, based on its understanding of the investigation to date, does not believe there will be any additional material impact to the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. For more information, see “Item 8.A. Legal Proceedings.” Arbitration proceedings under the Lease Agreement for the Salar de Atacama, if determined adversely to us, would materially adversely affect our business and operations Our subsidiary SQM Salar holds exclusive and temporary exploitation rights to mineral resources in 81,920 hectares in the Salar de Atacama pursuant to a 1993 lease agreement between SQM Salar and Corporación de Fomento de la Producción (“Corfo”), a Chilean government entity (the “Lease Agreement”). The mining exploitation concessions related to such rights are owned by Corfo and leased to SQM Salar in exchange for quarterly lease payments to Corfo based on specified percentages associated to the value of the products resulting from the minerals extracted from such concessions. For the year ended December 31, 2014, revenue related to products originating from the Salar de Atacama represented 39% of our consolidated revenues, which corresponded to revenues from our potassium product line and our lithium and derivatives product line for the period. All of our products originating from the Salar de Atacama are derived from our extraction operations under the Lease Agreement. 10 In May 2014, Corfo initiated an arbitration proceeding against SQM Salar alleging (i) SQM Salar had incorrectly applied the formulas to determine lease payments resulting in an underpayment to Corfo of at least US$8.9 million for 2009 through 2013 and (ii) SQM Salar had not complied with its obligation to protect the mining rights of Corfo by failing to place markers to delineate property lines. Based on the alleged breaches of the Lease Agreement, Corfo sought (i) at least US$8.9 million plus any other amount that may be due in respect of periods after 2013, (ii) early termination of the Lease Agreement, (iii) lease payments that would have been paid through 2030 as compensation for the early termination of the Lease Agreement and (iv) punitive damages (daño moral) equal to 30% of the contractual damages awarded. SQM Salar contested the claim, asserting that both parties have applied formulas for the calculation and payment of lease payments for more than 20 years without conflict, in accordance with the terms of the Lease Agreement and their mutual understanding of the agreements by the parties during the term of the Lease Agreement. SQM Salar also asserted that the alleged breaches would be technical breaches and that Corfo may terminate the Lease Agreement solely for a material breach. SQM Salar in consultation with external counsel believes that it is likely it will prevail in the arbitration proceeding. However, an adverse ruling awarding damages sought by Corfo or permitting early termination of the Lease Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot assure you that Corfo will not use this arbitration proceeding to seek to renegotiate the terms of the Lease Agreement in a manner that is not favorable to SQM Salar. Although the parties are currently discussing potential resolutions, we cannot assure you such discussions will be successful or that Corfo will not take other actions in the future in relation to the Lease Agreement that are contrary to our interests. Our market reputation, commercial dealings or the price of our securities could be adversely affected by the negative outcome of certain proceedings against certain recent members of our Board and certain other named defendants On September 10, 2013, the SVS issued a press release disclosing it had instituted certain administrative proceedings (the “Cascading Companies Proceedings”) against (i) Mr. Julio Ponce Lerou (who was the Chairman of the Board and a director of the Company until April 24, 2015), (ii) Mr. Patricio Contesse Fica, who was a director of the Company until April 24, 2015 and is the son of Mr. Patricio Contesse González (who was the Company’s CEO until March 16, 2015), and (iii) other named defendants. The Company has been informed that Mr. Ponce and related persons beneficially owned 29.94% of SQM’s total shares as of December 31, 2014. See “Item 6.E. Share Ownership.” The SVS alleged breaches of Chilean corporate and securities laws in connection with acts performed by entities with direct or indirect share ownership interests in SQM (the “Cascading Companies”). The allegations made in connection with the Cascading Companies Proceedings do not relate to any acts or omissions of the Company or any of its directors, officers or employees in their capacities as such. In connection with the Cascading Companies Proceedings, the SVS alleged the existence of a scheme involving the named defendants whereby, through a number of transactions occurring between 2009 and 2011, the Cascading Companies allegedly sold securities of various companies, including securities of SQM, at below-market prices to companies related to Mr. Ponce and other named defendants. These companies allegedly subsequently sold such securities after a lapse of time, in most cases back to the Cascading Companies, at prices higher than the purchase price. The SVS alleged violation by the defendants of a number of Chilean corporate and securities laws in furtherance of the alleged scheme. 11 On January 31, 2014, the SVS added a number of Chilean financial institutions and asset managers, and certain of their controlling persons, executives or other principals, as named defendants to the Cascading Companies Proceedings. On September 2, 2014, the SVS issued a decision imposing an aggregate fine against all of the defendants of UF 4,0110,000 (approximately US$162.8 million as of December 31, 2014), including a fine against Mr. Ponce of UF 1,700,000 (approximately US$69.0 million as of December 31, 2014) and a fine against Mr. Contesse Fica of UF 60,000 (approximately US$2.4 million as of December 31, 2014). The defendants are currently challenging the SVS administrative decision before a Chilean Civil Court. The High Complexity Crimes Unit (Unidad de Delitos de Alta Complejidad) of the Metropolitan District Central Northern Attorney’s Office (Fiscalía Metropolitana Centro Norte) is also investigating various criminal complaints filed against various parties to the Cascading Companies Proceedings. In addition, the SII announced an investigation of the transactions alleged to have occurred in the Cascading Companies Proceedings in order to determine whether the individuals or companies involved violated Chilean tax laws or filed false returns for the purpose of evading taxes. If, for any reason, the Company is unable to differentiate itself from the named defendants, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s market reputation and commercial dealings. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that a non-appealable ruling in connection with the current Cascading Companies Proceedings or the investigations of the High Complexity Crimes Unit or the SII that is adverse to Mr. Ponce or Mr. Contesse Fica will not have a material adverse effect on our market reputation, commercial dealings and the price of our securities, or that the Cascading Companies will not sell shares of the Company or vote to increase the dividends we pay to our shareholders. We recently identified a material weakness in our internal controls over payments directed by the office of the former Chief Executive Officer Our management assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. The assessment was based on criteria established in the framework “Internal Controls — Integrated Framework (2013)” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management has determined that the Company did not maintain effective control over payments directed by the office of the former CEO. Based on the assessment, our management has concluded that as of December 31, 2014, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures—Disclosure Control and Procedures.” Although we have initiated steps to remediate the identified material weakness and enhance our internal controls, any failure to implement and maintain such measures or difficulties encountered in their implementation could (i) result in a material misstatement in our financial reporting or financial statements that would not be prevented or detected, (ii) cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under applicable securities laws or (iii) cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting or financial statements, the occurrence of any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and the prices of our securities. Volatility of world fertilizer and chemical prices and changes in production capacities could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations The prices of our products are determined principally by world prices, which, in some cases, have been subject to substantial volatility in recent years. World fertilizer and chemical prices vary depending upon the relationship between supply and demand at any given time. Supply and demand dynamics for our products are tied to a certain extent to global economic cycles, and have been impacted by circumstances related to such cycles. Furthermore, the supply of certain fertilizers or chemical products, including certain products that we provide, varies principally depending on the production of the major producers, (including us) and their respective business strategies. 12 Since 2008, world prices of potassium-based fertilizers (including some of our specialty plant nutrients and potassium chloride) have fluctuated as a result of the broader global economic and financial conditions. Although prices of potassium-based fertilizers stabilized in 2009 after the conclusion of important contract negotiations between major producers and buyers, during the second half of 2013, potassium prices declined as a result of an unexpected announcement made by the Russian company OAO Uralkali (“Uralkali”) that it was terminating its participation in Belarus Potash Corporation (“BPC”). As a result of the termination of Uralkali’s participation in BPC, there was increased price competition in the market. In addition, during the first half of 2014, we observed lower pricing of contracts between Chinese purchasers and major potash producers, which increased volatility in the price of fertilizers. The average price for our potassium chloride and potassium sulfate business line was approximately 11% lower in 2014 compared to 2013. We cannot assure you that potassium-based fertilizer prices and sales volumes will not decline in the future. Iodine prices followed an upward trend beginning at the end of 2008 and continuing through 2012, reaching an average price of approximately US$53 per kilogram in 2012, over 40% higher than average prices in 2011. During 2013, even though iodine demand reached record highs, demand growth softened, and supply increased, causing a decline in iodine prices. The average price of iodine seen by SQM was approximately US$38 per kilogram in 2014, approximately 23% less than average prices seen by the Company in 2013. We cannot assure you that iodine prices or sales volumes will not continue to decline in the future. As a result of events in global markets during 2009, demand for lithium carbonate declined, causing a decrease in lithium prices and sales volumes. In September 2009, we announced a 20% reduction in lithium carbonate and lithium hydroxide prices as a means of stimulating demand. As a result, in 2010 we observed demand recovery in the lithium carbonate market, which continued in 2011 and 2012. In 2013, we continued to see strong market growth, driven mostly by an increase in demand related to battery use. Nevertheless, demand growth was accompanied by an increase in supply from existing competitors. In 2014, prices remained at similar levels averaging US$5,235 per metric ton in 2014 for this business line, which was 4% lower compared to 2013. We cannot assure you that lithium prices and sales volumes will not decline in the future. We expect that prices for the products we manufacture will continue to be influenced, among other things, by worldwide supply and demand and the business strategies of major producers. Some of the major producers (including us) have increased or have the ability to increase production. As a result, the prices of our products may be subject to substantial volatility. High volatility or a substantial decline in the prices or sales volumes of one or more of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales to emerging markets and expansion strategy expose us to risks related to economic conditions and trends in those countries We sell our products in more than 110 countries around the world. In 2014, approximately 46% of our sales were made in emerging market countries: 18% in Central and South America (excluding Chile); 7% in Africa and the Middle East; 11% in Chile and 10% in Asia and Oceania (excluding Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea and Singapore). We expect to expand our sales in these and other emerging markets in the future. In addition, we may carry out acquisitions or joint ventures in jurisdictions in which we currently do not operate, relating to any of our businesses or to new businesses in which we believe we may have sustainable competitive advantages. The results of our operations and our prospects in other countries in which we establish operations will depend, in part, on the general level of political stability and economic activity and policies in those countries. Future developments in the political systems or economies of these countries or the implementation of future governmental policies in those countries, including the imposition of withholding and other taxes, restrictions on the payment of dividends or repatriation of capital, the imposition of import duties or other restrictions, the imposition of new environmental regulations or price controls or changes in relevant laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in those countries. 13 Our inventory levels may increase because of the global economic slowdown In general, world economic conditions can affect our inventory levels. At the end of 2014, our inventory levels were relatively high compared to prior years. Higher inventories carry a financial risk due to increased need for cash to fund working capital and could imply increased risk of loss of product. We cannot assure you that inventory levels will not continue to remain high or increase further in the future. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our level of and exposure to unrecoverable accounts receivable may significantly increase Potentially negative effects of adverse global economic conditions on the financial condition of our customers may include the extension of the payment terms of our accounts receivable and may increase our exposure to bad debt. While we have implemented certain safeguards, such as using credit insurance, letters of credit and prepayment for a portion of sales, to minimize this risk, the increase in our accounts receivable coupled with the financial condition of customers may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New production of iodine or lithium carbonate from current or new competitors in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect prices In recent years, new and existing competitors have increased the supply of iodine and lithium carbonate, which has affected prices for both products. Further production increases could negatively impact prices. There is limited information on the status of new iodine or lithium carbonate production capacity expansion projects being developed by current and potential competitors and, as such, we cannot make accurate projections regarding the capacities of possible new entrants into the market and the dates on which they could become operational. If these potential projects are completed in the short term, they could adversely affect market prices and our market share, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a capital expenditure program that is subject to significant risks and uncertainties Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of reserves, mining and processing costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our exploitation levels and the amount of finished products we produce. In addition, we require environmental permits for our new projects. Obtaining permits in certain cases may cause significant delays in the execution and implementation of new projects and, consequently, may require us to reassess the related risks and economic incentives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our production levels or generate sufficient cash flow, or that we will have access to sufficient investments, loans or other financing alternatives, to continue our activities at or above present levels, or that we will be able to implement our projects or receive the necessary permits required for them in time. Any or all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 High raw materials and energy prices could increase our production costs and cost of sales, and energy may become unavailable at any price We rely on certain raw materials and various energy sources (diesel, electricity, liquefied natural gas, fuel oil and others) to manufacture our products. Purchases of energy and raw materials we do not produce constitute an important part of our cost of sales, approximately 15% in 2014. In addition, we may not be able to obtain energy at any price if supplies are curtailed or otherwise become unavailable. To the extent we are unable to pass on increases in the prices of energy and raw materials to our customers or we are unable to obtain energy, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our reserves estimates could be subject to significant changes Our caliche ore mining reserves estimates are prepared by our own geologists and were most recently validated in January 2015 by Mrs. Marta Aguilera and Mr. Orlando Rojas. Mrs. Aguilera is a geologist with over 20 years of experience in the field. She is currently employed by SQM as Manager of Geology and Mining Development. Mrs. Aguilera is a Competent Person (Persona Competente), as that term is defined under Chilean Law No. 20,235, known as the Law that Regulates the Position of Competent Person and Creates the Qualifying Committee for Competencies in Mining Resources and Reserves (Ley que Regula la Figura de las Personas Competentes y Crea la Comisión Calificadora de Competencias de Recursos y Reservas Mineras or “Competent Person Law”), and she is registered under No. 163 in the Public Registry of Competent Persons in Mining Resources and Reserves in accordance with such law and related regulations. Mr. Orlando Rojas is a civil mining engineer and independent consultant. He is Partner and Chief Executive Officer of the company EMI-Ingenieros y Consultores S.A., whose offices are located at Renato Sánchez No. 3357, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile. He is a member of the Institute of Mining Engineers and is registered under No. 118 in the Public Registry of Competent Persons in Mining Resources and Reserves in accordance with the Competent Person Law and related regulations. He has worked as a mining engineer for 35 years since graduating from university, including more than 30 years working on estimates for reserves and resources. Our Salar de Atacama brine mining reserve estimates are prepared by our own geologists and were most recently validated in March 2015 by Mr. Álvaro Henríquez and Mr. Orlando Rojas. Mr. Henríquez is a geologist with more than 10 years of experience in the field of hydrogeology. He is currently employed by SQM as Superintendent of Geology, in the Salar Hydrogeology department. He is a Competent Person and is registered under No. 226 in the Public Registry of Competent Persons in Mining Resources and Reserves, in accordance with the Competent Person Law and related regulations. As a hydrogeologist, he has evaluated multiple brine-based projects and has experience evaluating resources and reserves. Estimation methods involve numerous uncertainties as to the quantity and quality of the reserves, and reserve estimates could change upwards or downwards. In addition, our reserve estimates are not subject to review by external geologists or an external auditing firm. A downward change in the quantity and/or quality of our reserves could affect future volumes and costs of production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Quality standards in markets in which we sell our products could become stricter over time In the markets in which we do business, customers may impose quality standards on our products and/or governments may enact stricter regulations for the distribution and/or use of our products. As a result, if we cannot meet such new standards or regulations, we may not be able to sell our products. In addition, our cost of production may increase in order to meet any such newly imposed or enacted standards. Failure to sell our products in one or more markets or to important customers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Chemical and physical properties of our products could adversely affect their commercialization Since our products are derived from natural resources, they contain inorganic impurities that may not meet certain customer or government standards. As a result, we may not be able to sell our products if we cannot meet such requirements. In addition, our cost of production may increase in order to meet such standards. Failure to meet such standards could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to sell our products in one or more markets or to important customers in such markets. Our business is subject to many operating and other risks for which we may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Our facilities and business operations in Chile and abroad are insured against losses, damage or other risks by insurance policies that are standard for the industry and that would reasonably be expected to be sufficient by prudent and experienced persons engaged in businesses similar to ours. We may be subject to certain events that may not be covered under our insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as a result of recent major earthquakes in Chile and other natural disasters worldwide, conditions in the insurance market have changed and may continue to change in the future, and as a result, we may face higher premiums and reduced coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in technology or other developments could result in preferences for substitute products Our products, particularly iodine, lithium, and their derivatives, are preferred raw materials for certain industrial applications, such as rechargeable batteries and LCDs. Changes in technology, the development of substitute raw materials or other developments could adversely affect demand for these and other products which we produce. In addition, other alternatives to our products may become more economically attractive as global commodity prices shift. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to labor strikes and labor liabilities that could impact our production levels and costs Over 96% of our employees are employed in Chile, of which approximately 68% were represented by 25 labor unions as of December 31, 2014. As in previous years, during 2014 we renegotiated collective labor contracts with individual unions one year before the expiration of such contracts. As of December 31, 2014, we had concluded negotiations with 21 labor unions, which represent 91.9% of our total unionized workers, signing new agreements with each for the next three years. In January of 2015, we concluded negotiations with two additional unions, covering a total of 99.7% of our unionized workers. In order to finalize the current collective bargaining cycle, we need to conduct negotiations with the remaining two unions. We are exposed to labor strikes and illegal work stoppages that could impact our production levels. If a strike or illegal work stoppage occurs and continues for a sustained period of time, we could be faced with increased costs and even disruption in our product flow that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Chilean Law No. 20,123, known as the Subcontracting Law, provides that when a serious workplace accident occurs, a company must halt work at the site where the accident took place until authorities from either the National Geology and Mining Service (Servicio Nacional de Geología y Minería or “Sernageomin”), the Labor Board (Dirección del Trabajo or “Labor Board”), or the National Health Service (Servicio Nacional de Salud), inspect the site and prescribe the measures such company must take to minimize the risk of similar accidents taking place in the future. Work may not be resumed until such company has taken the prescribed measures, and the period of time before work may be resumed may last for a number of hours, days, or longer. The effects of this law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 29, 2014, the Government of Chile sent the Chilean Congress a bill introducing modifications to the Labor Code in relation to collective rights. The objective of such bill is to modernize the Chilean labor relations system, giving more power to union organizations. This bill could undergo modifications after being discussed by the parliament during the year 2015. Therefore, we are not able to predict the potential effects of such bill on the Company. Lawsuits and arbitrations could adversely impact us We are party to a range of lawsuits and arbitrations involving different matters as described in Note 19.1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 8.A. Legal Proceedings. Although we intend to defend our positions vigorously, our defense of these actions may not be successful. Judgments or settlements in these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our strategy of being a world leader includes entering into commercial and production alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions to improve our global competitive position. As these operations increase in complexity and are carried out in different jurisdictions, we might be subject to legal proceedings that, if settled against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, the Chilean labor code (Código del Trabajo or “Labor Code”) established new procedures for labor matters which include oral trials conducted by specialized judges. The information available indicates that the majority of these oral trials have found in favor of the employee. These new procedures have increased the probability of adverse judgments in labor lawsuits which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have operations in multiple jurisdictions with differing regulatory, tax and other regimes We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex regulatory environments that are subject to different interpretations by companies and respective governmental authorities. These jurisdictions may have different tax codes, environmental regulations, labor codes and legal framework, which adds complexity to our compliance with these regulations. Any failure to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations could expose us to higher costs, liabilities, claims and failure to meet current and future production targets Our operations in Chile are subject to national and local regulations relating to environmental protection. In accordance with such regulations, we are required to conduct environmental impact studies or statements before we conduct any new projects or activities or significant modifications of existing projects that could impact the environment or the health of people in the surrounding areas. We are also required to obtain an environmental license for certain projects and activities. The Environmental Evaluation Service (Servicio de Evaluación Ambiental or “Environmental Evaluation Service”) evaluates environmental impact studies submitted for its approval. The public, government agencies or local authorities may review and challenge projects that may adversely affect the environment, either before these projects are executed or once they are operating, if they fail to comply with applicable regulations. In order to ensure compliance with environmental regulations, Chilean authorities may impose fines up to approximately US$9 million per infraction, revoke environmental permits or temporarily or permanently close facilities, among other enforcement measures. 17 Chilean environmental regulations have become increasingly stringent in recent years, both with respect to the approval of new projects and in connection with the implementation and development of projects already approved, and we believe that this trend is likely to continue. Given public interest in environmental enforcement matters, these regulations or their application may also be subject to political considerations that are beyond our control. We regularly monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and on the health of people in the surrounding areas and have, from time to time, made modifications to our facilities to minimize any adverse impact. Future developments in the creation or implementation of environmental requirements or their interpretation could result in substantially increased capital, operation or compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our current investments at the Salar de Atacama and Nueva Victoria is dependent on the behavior of the ecosystem variables being monitored over time. If the behavior of these variables in future years does not meet environmental requirements, our operation may be subject to important restrictions by the authorities on the maximum allowable amounts of brine and water extraction. Our future development depends on our ability to sustain future production levels, which requires additional investments and the submission of the corresponding environmental impact studies or statements. If we fail to obtain approval or required environmental licenses, our ability to maintain production at specified levels will be seriously impaired, thus having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our worldwide operations are subject to international and other local environmental regulations. Since environmental laws and regulations in the different jurisdictions in which we operate may change, we cannot guarantee that future environmental laws, or changes to existing environmental laws, will not materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our water supply could be affected by geological changes or climate change Our access to water may be impacted by changes in geology, climate change or other natural factors, such as wells drying up or reductions in the amount of water available in the wells or rivers from which we obtain water, that we cannot control. Any such change may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any loss of key personnel may materially and adversely affect our business Our success depends in large part on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of key members of our senior management or employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to attract or retain highly skilled, talented and qualified senior managers or other key personnel, our ability to fully implement our business objectives may be materially and adversely affected. 18 Risks Relating to Financial Markets Currency fluctuations may have a negative effect on our financial performance We transact a significant portion of our business in U.S. dollars, and the U.S. dollar is the currency of the primary economic environment in which we operate. In addition, the U.S. dollar is our functional currency for financial statement reporting purposes. A significant portion of our costs, however, is related to the Chilean peso. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar would affect our costs of production. The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and revaluations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. As of December 31, 2014, the Chilean peso exchange rate was Ch$606.75 per U.S. dollar, while as of December 31, 2013, the Chilean peso exchange rate was Ch$524.61 per U.S. dollar. The Chilean peso therefore depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 16% in 2014. As of April 28, 2015, the Observed Exchange Rate was Ch$611.08 per U.S. dollar. As an international company operating in several other countries, we also transact business and have assets and liabilities in other non-U.S. dollar currencies, such as, among others, the euro, the South African rand, the Mexican peso, the Chinese yuan, the Thai baht and the Brazilian real. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates of such foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations may have a material impact on our financial performance We have outstanding short and long-term debt that bears interest based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus a spread. Since we are currently hedging only a portion of these liabilities into fixed rates, we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to LIBOR fluctuations. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 14% our financial debt had LIBOR-based pricing that was not hedged into fixed rates. A relative increase in the rate could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Chile As we are a company based in Chile, we are exposed to Chilean political risks Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be affected by changes in policies of the Chilean government, other political developments in or affecting Chile, legal changes in the standards or administrative practices of Chilean authorities or the interpretation of such standards and practices, over which we have no control. Changes in regulations regarding, or any revocation or suspension of our concessions could negatively affect our business Any changes to regulations to which we are subject or adverse changes to our concession rights, or a revocation or suspension of our concessions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Changes in mining or port concessions could affect our operating costs We conduct our mining operations, including brine extraction, under exploitation and exploration concessions granted in accordance with provisions of the Chilean constitution and related laws and statutes. Our exploitation concessions essentially grant a perpetual right (with the exception of the Salar de Atacama rights, which have been leased to us until 2030) to conduct mining operations in the areas covered by the concessions, provided that we pay annual concession fees. Our exploration concessions permit us to explore for mineral resources on the land covered thereby for a specified period of time and to subsequently request a corresponding exploitation concession. Our subsidiary SQM Salar, as leaseholder, holds exclusive and temporary rights over the mineral resources in an area covering approximately 140,000 hectares of land in the Salar de Atacama in northern Chile, of which SQM Salar is entitled to exploit the mineral resources of 81,920 hectares. These rights are owned by Corfo and leased to SQM Salar pursuant to the Lease Agreement between Corfo and SQM Salar. Corfo may not unilaterally modify the Lease Agreement, and the rights to exploit the mineral substances cannot be transferred. The Lease Agreement establishes that SQM Salar is responsible for making quarterly lease payments to Corfo, maintaining Corfo’s rights over the mining exploitation concessions, and making annual payments to the Chilean government for such concession rights. The Lease Agreement expires on December 31, 2030. Furthermore, under the regulations of the Chilean Nuclear and Energy Commission (Comisión Chilena de Energía Nuclear or “CCHEN”), we are limited to 180,100 tons of total lithium (958,672 tons of lithium carbonate equivalent) extraction in the aggregate for all periods. We are over halfway through the term of the Lease Agreement and have extracted approximately half of the total accumulated extraction limit of lithium. However, there can be no assurance that we will not reach the lithium extraction limit prior to the term of the lease agreement. In addition, we cannot assure you that Corfo will not take other actions in the future in respect of the Lease Agreement that are contrary to our interests. See “-Risk Relating to our Business-Arbitration proceedings under the Lease Agreement for the Salar de Atacama, if determined adversely to us, would materially adversely affect our business and operations.” We also operate port facilities at Tocopilla, Chile for the shipment of products and the delivery of raw materials pursuant to maritime concessions, which have been granted under applicable Chilean laws and are normally renewable on application, provided that such facilities are used as authorized and annual concession fees are paid. Any significant changes to any of these concessions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in water rights laws and other regulations could affect our operating costs We hold water rights that are key to our operations. These rights were obtained from the Chilean Water Authority (Dirección General de Aguas) for supply of water from rivers and wells near our production facilities, which we believe are sufficient to meet current operating requirements. However, the Chilean water rights code (Código de Aguas or the “Water Code”) is subject to changes, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, an amendment published on June 16, 2005 modified the Water Code, allowing, under certain conditions, the granting of permanent water rights of up to two liters per second for each well built prior to June 30, 2004, in the areas where we conduct our mining operations, without considering the availability of water, or how the new rights may affect holders of existing rights. Therefore, the amount of water we can effectively extract based on our existing rights could be reduced if these additional rights are exercised. In addition, we must pay annual fees to maintain water rights that have been granted to us and that we are not exercising. These and potential future changes to the Water Code or other relevant regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chilean government could levy additional taxes on corporations operating in Chile In 2005, the Chilean Congress approved Law No. 20,026 known as the Law to Establish a Specific Tax on Mining Activity” (Ley que Establece un Impuesto Específico a la Actividad Minera or the “Royalty Law”), establishing a royalty tax to be applied to mining activities developed in Chile. Following the earthquake and tsunami in February 2010, the Chilean government raised the corporate income tax rate in order to pay for reconstruction. Such legislation increased the general corporate tax rate from its historic rate of 17.0% to 20.0% for the income accrued in 2011, which was declared and paid in 2012. On September 27, 2012, Law No. 20,630 introduced new amendments to existing tax legislation. Among the amendments introduced, the corporate income tax was maintained at 20% beginning in the 2013 calendar year. 20 On September 29, 2014, Law No. 20,780 was published (the “Tax Reform”), introducing significant changes to the Chilean taxation system and strengthening the powers of the SII to control and prevent tax avoidance. The Tax Reform contemplates, among other matters, changes to the corporate tax regime to create two tax regimes. Starting on January 1, 2017, Chilean companies will be able to opt between two tax regimes: (i) the partially integrated shareholder tax regime (sistema parcialmente integrado) or (ii) the attributed income shareholder taxation regime (sistema de renta atribuida). In both regimes, the corporate tax rate will be increased to 21% in 2014, 22.5% in 2015 and 24% by 2016. On or after January 1, 2017, and depending on the tax regime chosen by the company, tax rates may be increased to a maximum rate of 25% in 2017 for the attributed income shareholder taxation regime or to a rate of 25.5% in 2017 and subsequently to a maximum rate of 27% in 2018 for the partially integrated shareholder tax regime. As an open stock corporation, the default regime that applies to us is the partially integrated regime, unless at a future shareholders’ meeting our shareholders agree to opt for the attributed income shareholder taxation regime. Under the partially integrated shareholder taxation regime, shareholders bear the tax on dividends, when paid, but will be permitted to credit against such shareholder taxes only a portion of the Chilean corporate tax paid by us on our earnings, unless the shareholder is resident in a country with a tax treaty with Chile, in which case 100% of the Chilean corporate tax paid by us may be credited against such shareholder taxes. As a result, foreign shareholders resident in a non-treaty jurisdiction (such as the United States) will be subject to a higher effective tax rate than residents of treaty jurisdictions. Under the attributed-income shareholder taxation regime, shareholders bear the Chilean tax on our accrued earnings (whether or not dividends have been distributed), but may credit the full amount of the Chilean corporate tax we pay on such earnings against such shareholder taxes. The Tax Reform tax increase prompted a US$52.3 million increase in our deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2014. In accordance with IAS 12, the effects generated by the change in the income tax rate approved by Law No. 20.780 on income and deferred taxes have been applied to the income statement. For purposes of the Company’s statutory consolidated financial statements filed with the SVS, in accordance with the instructions issued by the SVS in its circular 856 of October 17, 2014, the effects generated by the change in the income tax rate were accounted for as retained earnings. The amount charged to equity was US$52.3 million, thereby giving rise to a difference of US$52.3 million in profit for the year and income tax expense as presented in the Company’s Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and as presented in its statutory consolidated financial statements filed with the SVS. Given the difference in accounting treatments between IFRS and the instructions of the SVS, we will continue to analyze the effects of the Tax Reform on our financial statements and reporting obligations, and we cannot be sure of how our future financial statements will reflect these changes. In addition, the Tax Reform may have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, we cannot assure you that the manner in which the Royalty Law or the corporate tax rate are interpreted and applied will not change in the future. The Chilean government may decide to levy additional taxes on mining companies or other corporations in Chile. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ratification of the International Labor Organization’s Convention 169 concerning indigenous and tribal peoples might affect our development plans Chile, a member of the International Labor Organization (“ILO”), has ratified the ILO’s Convention 169 (the “Indigenous Rights Convention”) concerning indigenous and tribal people. The Indigenous Rights Convention established several rights for indigenous people and communities. Among other rights, the Indigenous Rights Convention states that (i) indigenous groups should be notified and consulted prior to the development of any project on land deemed indigenous, although veto rights are not mentioned and (ii) indigenous groups have, to the extent possible, a stake in benefits resulting from the exploitation of natural resources in indigenous land. The extent of these benefits has not been defined by the Chilean government. To the extent that the new rights outlined in the Indigenous Rights Convention become laws or regulations in Chile, they could affect the development of our investment projects in lands that have been defined as indigenous, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Chile is located in a seismically active region Chile is prone to earthquakes because it is located along major fault lines. The most recent major earthquake in Chile occurred offshore in April 2014 and had a magnitude of 8.2 on the Richter scale. This earthquake followed another one in February 2010, which caused substantial damage to some areas of the country. Chile has also experienced volcanic activity. A major earthquake or a volcanic eruption could have significant negative consequences for our operations and for the general infrastructure, such as roads, rail, and access to goods, in Chile. Although we maintain industry standard insurance policies that include earthquake coverage, we cannot assure you that a future seismic or volcanic event will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Shares and to our ADSs The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Chilean peso exchange rate Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs is conducted in Chilean pesos. The depositary will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares in Chilean pesos. The depositary will convert such Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect of ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will decrease. Developments in other emerging markets could materially affect the value of our ADSs The Chilean financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries or regions of the world. Although economic conditions are different in each country or region, investor reaction to developments in one country or region can have significant effects on the securities of issuers in other countries and regions, including Chile and Latin America. Events in other parts of the world may have a material effect on Chilean financial and securities markets and on the value of our ADSs. The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean securities markets could affect the ability of our shareholders to sell our ADSs The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than the major securities markets in the United States. The volatility and low liquidity of the Chilean markets could increase the price volatility of our ADSs and may impair the ability of a holder to sell our ADSs into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time he wishes to do so. Our share price may react negatively to future acquisitions and investments As world leaders in our core businesses, part of our strategy is to look for opportunities that will allow us to consolidate and strengthen our competitive position in jurisdictions in which we currently do not operate. Pursuant to this strategy, we may carry out acquisitions or joint ventures relating to any of our businesses or to new businesses in which we believe we may have sustainable competitive advantages. Depending on our capital structure at the time of such acquisitions or joint ventures, we may need to raise significant debt and/or equity which will affect our financial condition and future cash flows. Any change in our financial condition could affect our results of operations, negatively impacting our share price. 22 You may be unable to enforce rights under U.S. Securities Laws Because we are a Chilean company subject to Chilean law, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in companies incorporated in the United States, and you may not be able to enforce or may have difficulty enforcing rights currently in effect under U.S. Federal or State securities laws. Our Company is an open stock corporation incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Chile. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, principally in Chile. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, if any of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs, were to bring a lawsuit against our officers or directors in the United States, it may be difficult for them to effect service of legal process within the United States upon these persons. Likewise, it may be difficult for them to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws in the United States against them in the United States. In addition, there is no treaty between the United States and Chile providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, Chilean courts have enforced judgments rendered in the United States, provided that the Chilean court finds that the United States court respected basic principles of due process and public policy. Nevertheless, there is doubt as to whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile in the first instance on the basis of liability based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. As preemptive rights may be unavailable for our ADS holders, they have the risk of their holdings being diluted if we issue new stock Chilean laws require companies to offer their shareholders preemptive rights whenever issuing new shares of capital stock so shareholders can maintain their existing ownership percentage in a company. If we increase our capital by issuing new shares, a holder may subscribe for up to the number of shares that would prevent dilution of the holder’s ownership interest. If we issue preemptive rights, United States holders of ADSs would not be able to exercise their rights unless a registration statement under the Securities Act were effective with respect to such rights and the shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from registration were available. We cannot assure holders of ADSs that we will file a registration statement or that an exemption from registration will be available. We may, in our absolute discretion, decide not to prepare and file such a registration statement. If our holders were unable to exercise their preemptive rights because we did not file a registration statement, the depositary bank would attempt to sell their rights and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to them, after deducting the depositary’s fees and expenses. If the depositary could not sell the rights, they would expire and holders of ADSs would not realize any value from them. In either case, ADS holders’ equity interest in us would be diluted in proportion to the increase in our capital stock. 23 If we were classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company there could be adverse consequences for U.S. investors We believe that we were not classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) for 2014. Characterization as a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor in our shares or ADSs. For example, if we (or any of our subsidiaries) are a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we (or any of our subsidiaries or portfolio companies) are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our (or their) income and assets from time to time. See “Item 10.E. Taxation—United States Tax Considerations.” Changes in Chilean tax regulations could have adverse consequences for U.S. investors Currently cash dividends paid by us to foreign shareholders are subject to a 35% Chilean withholding tax. If we have paid corporate income tax (the “First Category Tax”) on the income from which the dividend is paid, a credit for the First Category Tax effectively reduces the rate of Withholding Tax. Changes in Chilean tax regulations could have adverse consequences for U.S. investors. See “Item 3. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Chile—The Chilean Government Could Levy Additional Taxes on Corporations Operating in Chile” and “Item 10. Taxation—Chilean Tax Considerations.” 