ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in the Company’s other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding the Company’s common shares. There may be additional risks of which the Company is currently unaware, or which it currently considers immaterial. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and value of its common shares. Poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the amount of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting revenue and net income. If the Company fails to deliver excellent investment performance for its clients, both in the short and long term, it will likely experience diminished investor interest and potentially a diminished level of AUM. The Company’s AUM, which impacts revenue, is subject to significant fluctuations. Substantially all revenue for the Company is calculated as a percentage of AUM or is based on the general performance of the equity securities market. A decline in securities prices (such as that experienced during the last half of 2008 and first quarter of 2009) or in the sale of investment products, or an increase in fund redemptions, generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines would generally negatively impact the level of the Company’s AUM and consequently its revenue and net income. A recession or other economic or political events could also adversely impact the Company’s revenue, if such events led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices. The Company’s success depends on its key personnel, and its financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. The Company’s success depends on highly skilled personnel, including portfolio managers, research analysts, and management, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in the investment management industry. Financial services professionals are in high demand, and the Company faces significant competition for qualified employees. With the exception of the Chief Executive Officer, key employees do not have employment contracts and generally can terminate their employment at any time. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to retain or replace key personnel. In order to retain or replace its key personnel, the Company may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. The loss of key personnel could damage the Company’s reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and clients. A loss of client assets resulting from the departure of key personnel would decrease the Company’s revenues and net income, possibly materially. The Company is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of its business. The Company’s investment products compete against a number of investment products and services from: • asset management firms; • mutual fund companies; • commercial banks and thrift institutions; • insurance companies; • hedge funds; and • brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than the Company and may offer a broader range of products or operate in more markets. Some of these institutions operate in a different regulatory environment, which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. The Company competes with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based upon its investment philosophy, performance and client service. Some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for the Company to compete with them. If current or potential customers decide to use one of the Company’s competitors, the Company could face a significant decline in market share, AUM, revenues, and net income. If the Company is required to lower its fees in order to remain competitive, its net income could be significantly reduced because some of its expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and other expenses may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. 8 Table of Contents A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are based on contracts with the Diamond Hill Funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. The Company is very dependent on its contractual relationships with the Funds. In the event the Company’s advisory or administration agreements with the Funds are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, the Company would be materially and adversely affected. Generally, these agreements are terminable by either party upon 60 days written notice without penalty. The agreements are subject to annual approval by either (i) the board of trustees of the Funds or (ii) a vote of the majority of the outstanding voting securities of each Fund. The agreements automatically terminate in the event of their assignment by either the Company or the Fund. The Company generated approximately 66%, 69% and 72% of its 2010, 2009 and 2008 revenues, respectively, from its advisory and administrative contracts with the Funds, including 31% from the advisory contract with the Diamond Hill Long-Short Fund during 2010. The loss of the Long-Short Fund contract would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company considers its relationship with the Funds and their board of trustees to be good, and it has no reason to believe that these advisory or administration contracts will not be renewed in the future; however, there is no assurance that the Funds will choose to continue their relationships with the Company. The Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation. The Company’s business is subject to a variety of federal securities laws including the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001. In addition, the Company is subject to significant regulation and oversight by the SEC and FINRA. Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations and results, including but not limited to increased expenses and reduced investor interest in certain funds and other investment products offered by the Company. The Company continually monitors legislative, tax, regulatory, accounting, and compliance developments that could impact its business. The Company will continue to seek to understand, evaluate and when possible, manage and control these and other business risks. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 