Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, whether oral or written. We wish to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and the trading price of the Trust’s common shares could decline. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s present expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, these statements are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial that also may impair our business operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Associated with Real Estate Recession in the United States and the related downturn in the housing and real estate markets have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The United States economy is believed to have entered a recession sometime during 2008. The trends in both the real estate industry and the broader United States economy continue to be unfavorable and continue to adversely affect our revenues. The downturn in the U.S. economy and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our residents at our multifamily properties and our tenants at our commercial properties and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our residents, tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, is adversely affected by the increase in supply and deterioration in the multifamily market stemming from ongoing recession and is dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, the downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. With regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may further reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and further depress rental rates in certain markets. With regard to for-sale residential properties, the market for our for-sale residential properties depends on an active demand for new for-sale housing and high consumer confidence. Continuing decline in demand, exacerbated by tighter credit standards for home buyers and foreclosures, has further contributed to an oversupply of housing alternatives adversely affecting the timing of sales and price at which we are able to sell our for-sale residential properties and thereby adversely affecting our profits from for-sale residential properties. We cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak or deteriorate further, our ability to lease our properties, our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets and the pace of condominium sales and closings and/or the related sales prices may continue to weaken during 2010. We face numerous risks associated with the real estate industry that could adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. As a real estate company, we are subject to various changes in real estate conditions, particularly in the Sunbelt region where our properties are concentrated, and any negative trends in such real estate conditions may adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. These conditions include: • worsening of national and regional economic conditions, such as those we are currently experiencing as a result of the ongoing recession as described above, as well as the deteriorating local economic conditions in our principal market areas; • availability of financing; • the inability of residents and tenants to pay rent; • the existence and quality of the competition, such as the attractiveness of our property as compared to our competitors’ properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record; • increased operating costs, including increased real property taxes, maintenance, insurance and utilities costs; • weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; 16 Table of Contents • oversupply of multifamily, commercial space or single-family housing or a reduction in demand for real estate in the markets in which our properties are located; • a favorable interest rate environment that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our multifamily apartment communities deciding to purchase homes instead of renting; • rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and • changing trends in the demand by consumers for merchandise offered by retailers conducting business at our retail properties. Moreover, other factors may affect our results of operations adversely, including changes in government regulations and other laws, rules and regulations governing real estate, zoning or taxes, changes in interest rate levels, the availability of financing and potential liability under environmental and other laws and other unforeseen events, most of which are discussed elsewhere in the following risk factors. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents. Our multifamily apartment communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily apartment communities and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single- and multi-family homes. Competitive housing in a particular area and an increase in the affordability of owner occupied single and multi-family homes due to, among other things, declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and tax incentives and government programs to promote home ownership, could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes and increase or maintain rents. We are subject to significant regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased costs and/or an inability to pursue business opportunities. Local zoning and use laws, environmental statutes and other governmental requirements may restrict our development, expansion, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities. These regulations may prevent or delay us from taking advantage of economic opportunities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines, awards to private litigants of damages against us, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation or compliance. In addition, we cannot predict what requirements may be enacted in the future or that such a requirement will not increase our costs of regulatory compliance or prohibit us from pursuing business opportunities that could be profitable to us. Real estate investments are illiquid, and therefore, we may not be able to sell our properties in response to economic changes which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid generally, and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell a property or properties quickly or on favorable terms in response to changes in the economy or other conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot sell an unprofitable property. In the case of our for-sale residential properties, our inability to sell units in a timely manner could adversely affect our financial condition, among other things, by causing us to hold properties for a longer period than is otherwise desirable and requiring us to record impairment charges in connection with the properties (see Note 4 – “Impairment” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Trust and CRLP included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Our financial condition could also be adversely affected if we were, for example, unable to sell one or more of our properties in order to meet our debt obligations upon maturity. In addition, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Therefore, we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to market conditions, which may adversely affect our financial position. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Fair Housing Act could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, and the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988, or FHAA, and various state and local laws, all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with these requirements could involve removal of structural barriers from certain disabled persons’ entrances. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such means of access. Noncompliance with the ADA, FHAA or related laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines by government authorities, awards to private litigants of 17 Table of Contents damages against us, substantial litigation costs and the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance. Risks Associated with Our Operations Our revenues are significantly influenced by demand for multifamily properties generally, and a decrease in such demand will likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Our portfolio is focused predominately on multifamily properties. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. A decrease in the demand for multifamily properties would likely have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Resident demand at multifamily properties has been and could continue to be adversely affected by the downturn in the U.S. economy and the related reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions the in financial and credit markets, as well as the rate of household formation or population growth in our markets, changes in interest rates or changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing multifamily properties in an area. To the extent that any of these conditions occur and continue to occur, they are likely to affect occupancy and market rents at multifamily properties, which could cause a decrease in our rental revenue. Any such decrease could impair our ability to satisfy our substantial debt service obligations or make distributions to our shareholders. Our ability to dispose of our existing inventory of condominium and for-sale residential assets could adversely affect our results of operations. To help implement our plans to strengthen the balance sheet and deleverage the company, in January 2009, the Trust’s Board of Trustees decided to accelerate plans to dispose of our for-sale residential assets including condominium conversions and land held for future for-sale residential and mixed-use developments until we determine that the current economic environment has sufficiently improved. As of December 31, 2009, we have 52 for sale-residential units remaining and 223 residential lots for sale. Exiting these markets may expose us to the following risks: • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand, may result in reduced or fluctuating sales; • for-sale properties acquired for development usually generate little or no cash flow until completion of development and sale of a significant number of homes or condominium units and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such homes or condominium units are sold; • we may abandon development or conversion opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities; • we may be unable to close on sales of individual units under contract; • buyers may be unable to qualify for financing; • sales prices may be lower than anticipated; • competition from other condominiums and other types of residential housing may result in reduced or fluctuating sales; • we could be subject to liability claims from condominium associations or others asserting that construction performed was defective, resulting in litigation and/or settlement discussions; and • we may be unable to attract sales prices with respect to our for-sale assets that compensate us for our costs (which may result in impairment charges). After reevaluating our operating strategy in light of the ongoing downturn in the U.S. economy and credit crisis, we recorded a non cash impairment charge of $116.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely attributable to our condominium and for-sale residential assets. In addition, during 2009, we recorded $12.3 million of non-cash impairment charges related to certain for-sale residential units, a commercial development and certain land parcels. See Item 1, “Impairment,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding this impairment charge. If market conditions do not improve or if there is further market deterioration, it may impact the number of projects we can sell, the timing of the sales and/or the prices at which we can sell them. If we are unable to sell projects, we may incur additional impairment charges on projects previously impaired as well as on projects not currently impaired but for which indicators of impairment may exist, which would decrease the value of our assets as reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our shareholders’ equity. There can be no assurances of the amount or pace of future for-sale residential sales and closings, particularly given current market conditions. 18 Table of Contents Our properties may not generate sufficient rental income to pay our expenses if we are unable to lease our new properties or renew leases or re-lease space at our existing properties as leases expire, which may adversely affect our operating results. We derive the majority of our income from residents and tenants who lease space from us at our properties. A number of factors may adversely affect our ability to attract residents and tenants at favorable rental rates and generate sufficient income, including: • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or reduction in demand for, multifamily or commercial properties; • the attractiveness of our properties to residents, shoppers and tenants; • decreases in market rental rates; and • our ability to collect rent from our residents and tenants. If we cannot generate sufficient income to pay our expenses, maintain our properties and service our debt as a result of any of these factors, our operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, the ongoing deterioration of the U.S. economy and the related reduction in spending, falling home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our residents or tenants to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by residents and tenants. The residents at our multifamily properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from six months to one year. Tenants at our office properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from three to ten years and tenants at our retail properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from one to ten years. As leases expire at our existing properties, residents and tenants may elect not to renew them. Even if our residents and tenants do renew or if we can re-lease the space, the terms of renewal or re-leasing, including the cost of required renovations may be less favorable than current lease terms. In addition, for new properties, we may be unable to attract enough residents and tenants and the occupancy rates and rents may not be sufficient to make the property profitable. If we are unable to renew the leases or re-lease the space at our existing properties promptly and/or lease the space at our new properties, or if the rental rates upon renewal or re-leasing at existing properties are significantly lower than expected rates, or if there is an increase in tenant defaults, our operating results will be negatively affected. We may not be able to control our operating costs or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenues decrease, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to control operating costs include: • the need to pay for insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time; • the need periodically to repair, renovate and re-lease space; • the cost of compliance with governmental regulation, including zoning and tax laws; • the potential for liability under applicable laws; • interest rate levels; and • the availability of financing. If our operating costs increase as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The expense of owning and operating a property is not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, if revenues drop, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly. Costs associated with real estate investments, such as real estate taxes, loan payments and maintenance generally will not be reduced even if a property is not fully occupied or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. If a property is mortgaged and we are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property, resulting in a further reduction in net income. We are subject to increased exposure to economic and other factors due to the concentration of our properties in the Sunbelt region, and economic downturns, natural disasters or acts of terrorism in the Sunbelt region could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Substantially all of our properties are located in the Sunbelt region of the United States. In particular, we derived approximately 84.3% of our net operating income in 2009 from top quartile cities located in the Sunbelt region. We are therefore subject to increased exposure to economic and other factors specific to these geographic areas. If the Sunbelt region of the United States, and in particular the areas of or near Birmingham, AL; Atlanta, GA; Orlando, FL; Charlotte, NC and Dallas/Fort Worth, TX, experiences a recession or other slowdown in the economy, a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected as a result of decreased revenues, increased costs or damage or loss of assets. 19 Table of Contents Tenant bankruptcies and downturns in tenants’ businesses may adversely affect our operating results by decreasing our revenues. At any time, a tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Additionally, the ongoing deterioration in the U.S. economy and related reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, adversely affect our tenants financially and impede their ability to perform their contractual obligations. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement, cease or defer making rental payments or declare bankruptcy. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that we will recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold from a bankrupt tenant. The bankruptcy or financial difficulties of any of our tenants may negatively affect our operating results by decreasing our revenues. Risks associated with the property management, leasing and brokerage businesses could adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing our revenues. In addition to the risks we face as a result of our ownership of real estate, we face risks relating to the property management, leasing and brokerage businesses of CPSI, including risks that: • management contracts or service agreements with third-party owners will be terminated and lost to competitors; • contracts will not be renewed upon expiration or will not be available for renewal on terms consistent with current terms; and • leasing and brokerage activity generally may decline. Each of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing our revenues. We could incur significant costs related to environmental issues which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased compliance costs or our financial condition if we become subject to a significant liability. Under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of on real property, may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating hazardous substances on or under or released from the property and for damages to natural resources. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation & Liability Act, and similar state laws, generally impose liability on a joint and several basis, regardless of whether the owner, operator or other responsible party knew of or was at fault for the release or presence of hazardous substances. In connection with the ownership or operation of our properties, we could be liable in the future for costs associated with investigation and remediation of hazardous substances released at or from such properties. The costs of any required remediation and related liability as to any property could be substantial under these laws and could exceed the value of the property and/or our assets. The presence of hazardous substances or the failure to properly remediate those substances may result in our being liable for damages suffered by a third party for personal injury, property damage, cleanup costs, or otherwise and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent a property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. In addition, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which we use our properties or operate our business, and these restrictions may require expenditures for compliance. The restrictions themselves may change from time to time, and these changes may result in additional expenditures in order to achieve compliance. We cannot assure you that a material environmental claim or compliance obligation will not arise in the future. The costs of defending against any claims of liability, of remediating a contaminated property, or of complying with future environmental requirements could be substantial and affect our operating results. In addition, if a judgment is obtained against us or we otherwise become subject to a significant environmental liability, our financial condition may be adversely affected. During 2007, we engaged in the expansion of our Wal-Mart center at Colonial Promenade Winter Haven in Orlando, Florida. We received notice that the property that was purchased for the expansion contained environmental contamination that required remediation. We agreed to pay $0.9 million towards the remediation, which was paid during 2007. The expansion was completed in 2008, but we are still awaiting a “no further action” letter from the relevant regulatory agency. In 2009, we disposed of Colonial Promenade Winter Haven, but remain equally responsible with Wal-Mart for obtaining a “no further action” letter on the Wal-Mart parcel. In addition, we are obligated, using reasonable commercial efforts, to obtain a “no further action” letter for the two adjoining parcels on either side of the Wal-Mart parcel. 20 Table of Contents Costs associated with addressing indoor air quality issues, moisture infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be costly. As a general matter, concern about indoor exposure to mold or other air contaminants has been increasing as such exposure has been alleged to have a variety of adverse effects on health. As a result, there have been a number of lawsuits in our industry against owners and managers of apartment communities relating to indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and resulting mold. The terms of our property and general liability policies generally exclude certain mold-related claims. Should an uninsured loss arise against us, we would be required to use our funds to resolve the issue, including litigation costs. We make no assurance that liabilities resulting from indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a future impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As the owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our properties. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing materials. Environmental laws typically require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come in contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, third parties may be entitled to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. Uninsured or underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we are self insured up to $0.8 million, $1.0 million and $1.8 million for general liability, workers’ compensation and property insurance, respectively. We are also self insured for health insurance and responsible for amounts up to $135,000 per claim and up to $1.0 million per person, according to plan policy limits. If the actual costs incurred to cover such uninsured claims are significantly greater than our budgeted costs, our financial condition will be adversely affected. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties and appropriate given the relative risk of loss and the cost of the coverage. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, and in some cases, earthquakes, hurricanes and flooding that generally are not insured because such coverage is not available or it is not available at commercially reasonable rates. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. The costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. We cannot predict at this time if in the future we will be able to obtain full coverage at a reasonable cost. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. We may be unable to develop new properties or redevelop existing properties successfully, which could adversely affect our results of operations due to unexpected costs, delays and other contingencies. Our operating strategy historically has included development of new properties, as well as expansion and/or redevelopment of existing properties. Even though we decided in January 2009 to postpone future development activities (including previously identified future development projects) until we determine that the current economic environment has sufficiently improved, we have completed all but one of our developments that were in process during 2009 and expect to reengage in the development of our Colonial Promenade Nord du Lac development during 2010. Development activity may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliates or through joint ventures. However, there are significant risks associated with such development activities in addition to those generally associated with the ownership and operation of developed properties. These risks include the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs and/or lower than expected leases; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand, may result in reduced or fluctuating rental rates; 21 Table of Contents • we may incur development costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, changes in development plans or unforeseen environmental conditions, which could make completion of the property more costly or uneconomical; • land, insurance and construction costs continue to increase in our markets and may continue to increase in the future and we may be unable to attract rents that compensate for these increases in costs; • we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities; • rental rates and occupancy levels may be lower than anticipated; • changes in applicable zoning and land use laws may require us to abandon projects prior to their completion, resulting in the loss of development costs incurred up to the time of abandonment; and • we may experience late completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals or other factors outside of our control. In addition, if a project is delayed, certain residents and tenants may have the right to terminate their leases. Furthermore, from time to time we may utilize tax-exempt bond financing through the issuance of community development and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs. Under the terms of such bond financings, we may be responsible for paying assessments on the underlying property to meet debt service obligations on the bonds until the underlying property is sold. Accordingly, if we are unable to complete or sell a development property subject to such bond financing and we are forced to hold the property longer than we originally projected, we may be obligated to continue to pay assessments to meet debt service obligations under the bonds. If we are unable to pay the assessments, a default will occur under the bonds and the property could be foreclosed upon. Any one or more of these risks may cause us to incur unexpected development costs, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners. As of December 31, 2009, we had $17.4 million of equity invested in joint ventures. See Note 9 – “Investment in Partially-Owned Entities and Other Arrangements” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Trust and CRLP contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our investments in these joint ventures involve risks not customarily associated with our wholly-owned properties, including the following: • we share decision-making authority with some of our joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and the joint venture properties, such as the acquisition of properties, the sale of the properties or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the properties, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by those joint venture partners; • prior consent of our joint venture partners is required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the joint venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interest in the joint venture; • our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a joint venture property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; • our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the joint venture properties that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of such properties; • disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the joint venture properties or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business, and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the property such as by delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved (see, for example, the discussion under Note 19 — “Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Other Arrangements” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Trust and CRLP included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K); • our joint venture partners may be unsuccessful in refinancing or replacing existing mortgage indebtedness, or may choose not to do so, which could adversely affect the value of our joint venture interest; • we may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments; and • our joint venture partner may elect to sell or transfer its interests in the joint venture to a third party, which may result in our loss of management and leasing responsibilities and fees that we currently receive from the joint venture properties. 22 Table of Contents During 2009, certain of our unconsolidated joint ventures exercised options to extend an aggregate of approximately $48.5 million of outstanding mortgage debt from 2009 to 2010. In addition, one of our unconsolidated joint ventures disposed of its only property, a 280-unit multifamily apartment community, a portion of the proceeds of which were used to repay an outstanding collateralized $14.0 million mortgage loan on the property (of which our pro rata share was $2.8 million). We intend to cooperate with our joint venture partners in connection with their efforts to refinance and/or replace any outstanding joint venture indebtedness (which may also include, for example, property dispositions), which cooperation may include additional capital contributions from time to time. There can be no assurance that our joint ventures will be successful in refinancing and/or replacing such existing debt at maturity or otherwise. The failure to refinance and/or restructure such debt could materially adversely affect the value of our joint venture interests and therefore the value of our joint venture investments, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are required to perform under various financial guarantees that we have provided with respect to certain of our joint ventures and retail developments. From time to time, we guarantee portions of the indebtedness of certain of our unconsolidated joint ventures. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Guarantees and Other Arrangements” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a description of the guarantees that we have provided with respect to the indebtedness of certain of our joint ventures as of December 31, 2009. From time to time, in connection with certain retail developments, we receive funding from municipalities for infrastructure costs through the issuance of bonds that are repaid primarily from sales tax revenues generated from the tenants at each respective development. In some instances, we guarantee the shortfall, if any, of tax revenues to the debt service requirements on these bonds. If we are required to fund any amounts related to any of these guarantees, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to ultimately recover funded amounts. Competition for acquisitions could reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and result in increased prices for properties, which could adversely affect our return on properties we purchase. We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities in multifamily and commercial properties. These competitors include publicly traded REITs, private REITs, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, pension trusts, trust funds, investment banking firms, private institutional investment funds and national, regional and local real estate investors. This competition could increase the demand for multifamily properties, and therefore reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the prices paid for such acquisition properties. As a result, our expected return from investment in these properties would deteriorate. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities that were not discovered during due diligence. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated financial and operating results from our acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. We will acquire multifamily properties only if they meet our criteria and we believe that they will enhance our future financial performance and the value of our portfolio. Our belief, however, is based on and is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are forward-looking and are uncertain in nature or are beyond our control. In addition, some of these properties may have unknown characteristics or deficiencies or may not complement our portfolio of existing properties. As a result, some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of the acquisition, thereby negatively affecting our operating results. 23 Table of Contents Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth. We may from time to time commence development activities or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if economic conditions warrant and appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets. These risks include, among others: • an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment or for-sale residential housing market conditions and local economies; • an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; • an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and • lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing Activities We have substantial indebtedness and our cash flow may not be sufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness or repay our indebtedness as it matures. We rely on debt financing for our business. As of December 31, 2009, the amount of our total debt was approximately $1.9 billion, consisting of $1.7 billion of consolidated debt and $0.2 billion of our pro rata share of joint venture debt. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, a significant amount of our indebtedness was secured by our real estate assets. Due to our high level of debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon that property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies. In addition, if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. Most of our indebtedness does not require significant principal payments prior to maturity. However, we will need to raise additional equity capital, obtain collateralized or unsecured debt financing, issue private or public debt, or sell some of our assets to either refinance or repay our indebtedness as it matures. We cannot assure you that these sources of financing or refinancing will be available to us at reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain financing or refinancing to repay our maturing indebtedness, and our inability to refinance existing indebtedness on reasonable terms, may require us to make higher interest and principal payments, issue additional equity securities, or sell some of our assets on disadvantageous terms, all or any of which may result in foreclosure of properties, partial or complete loss on our investment and otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operation. Also see Item 1A — “Risk Factors – Risks Associated with Our Operations – Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.” Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing and have other adverse effects which would negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated borrowings and pro rata share of unconsolidated borrowings totaled approximately $1.7 billion of consolidated borrowings and $0.2 billion of unconsolidated borrowings. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the incurrence of debt. Our leverage and any future increases in our leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, make us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns, reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes which would negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. Due to the amount of our variable rate debt, rising interest rates would adversely affect our results of operation. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $384.6 million of variable rate debt outstanding, consisting of $323.9 million of our consolidated debt and $60.7 million of our pro rata share of variable rate unconsolidated joint venture debt. While we have sought to refinance our variable rate debt with fixed rate debt or cap our exposure to interest rate fluctuations by using interest rate swap agreements where appropriate, failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, interest rate swap agreements and other hedging arrangements may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of 24 Table of Contents operations or financial condition. In addition, as opportunities arise, we may borrow additional money with variable interest rates in the future. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates would adversely affect our results of operations. We have entered into debt agreements with covenants that restrict our operating activities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, and violation of these restrictive covenants could adversely affect our financial condition through debt defaults or acceleration. Our unsecured credit facility contains numerous customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur debt, including the following financial ratios: • collateralized debt to total asset value ratio; • fixed charge coverage ratio; • total liabilities to total asset value ratio; • total permitted investments to total asset value ratio; and • unencumbered leverage ratio. The indenture under which our senior unsecured debt is issued also contains financial and operating covenants including coverage ratios. Our indenture also limits our ability to: • incur collateralized and unsecured indebtedness; • sell all or substantially all or our assets; and • engage in mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. Also, certain of our mortgage indebtedness contains customary covenants which, among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. These restrictions, as well as any additional restrictions which we may become subject to in connection with additional financings or refinancings, will continue to hinder our operational flexibility through limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pursue certain business initiatives or make other changes to our business. These limitations could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, violations of these covenants could cause the declaration of defaults and any related acceleration of indebtedness, which would result in adverse consequences to our financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of the financial and operating covenants under our existing credit facility and indenture, and we believe that we will continue to remain in compliance with these covenants. However, given the deterioration in the U.S. economy and continued uncertainty in the credit markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these ratios and other debt covenants in the future, particularly if conditions were to worsen. Our inability to obtain sufficient third party financing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition because we depend on third party financing for our capital needs, including development, expansion, acquisition and other activities. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs from income from operations. As a result, when we engage in the development or acquisition of new properties or expansion or redevelopment of existing properties, we will continue to rely on third-party sources of capital, including lines of credit, collateralized or unsecured debt (both construction financing and permanent debt), and equity issuances. These sources, however, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our shareholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund our current or new development or project expansions or our acquisition activities on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient level of third party financing to fund our capital needs, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain sufficient third party financing for our capital needs, including development, expansion, acquisition and other activities, on reasonable terms or at all and could have other adverse effects on us and the market price of the Trust’s common shares. During 2009, the United States credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing, even for companies who are otherwise qualified to obtain financing. Continued uncertainty in the 25 Table of Contents credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing for our capital needs, including development, expansion, acquisition activities and other purposes at reasonable terms or at all, which may negatively affect our business. Additionally, due to this uncertainty, we may be unable to refinance or extend our existing indebtedness or the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. If we are not successful in refinancing this debt when it becomes due, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, which might adversely affect our ability to service other debt and to meet our other obligations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain permanent financing on development projects we financed with construction loans or mezzanine debt. Our inability to obtain such permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, could cause us to incur additional capital costs in connection with completing such projects, of which could have an adverse affect on our business. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of the Trust’s common shares, preferred shares or subordinated notes. The disruptions in the financial markets have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Trust’s common shares and other adverse effects on us and our business. Our senior notes do not have an established trading market, therefore, holders of our notes may not be able to sell their notes. Each series of CRLP’s senior notes is a new issue of securities with no established trading market. We do not intend to apply for listing of any series of notes on any national securities exchange. The underwriters in an offering of senior notes may advise us that they intend to make a market in the notes, but they are not obligated to do so and may discontinue market making at any time without notice. We can give no assurance as to the liquidity of or any trading market for any series of our notes. A downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2009, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the credit rating on our senior unsecured debt to Ba1 from Baa3. Additionally, Standard & Poor’s lowered the credit rating on our senior unsecured debt to BB+ from BBB- and the rating on our preferred shares to B+ from BB. While the downgrades by both Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s do not affect our ability to draw proceeds under our unsecured line of credit, the pricing on the credit facility has adjusted from LIBOR plus 75 basis points to LIBOR plus 105 basis points. The downgrade had the effect of increasing our borrowing costs, and further downgrades, while not impacting our borrowing costs, could shorten borrowing periods, thereby adversely impacting our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limiting our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Organization and Structure Some of our trustees and officers have conflicts of interest and could exercise influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of our shareholders. As a result of their substantial ownership of common shares and units, Messrs. Thomas Lowder, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James Lowder and Harold Ripps, each of whom is a trustee, could seek to exert influence over our decisions as to sales or re-financings of particular properties we own. Any such exercise of influence could produce decisions that are not in the best interest of all of the holders of interests in us. The Lowder family and their affiliates hold interests in a company that has performed insurance brokerage services with respect to our properties. This company may perform similar services for us in the future. As a result, the Lowder family may realize benefits from transactions between this company and us that are not realized by other holders of interests in us. In addition, given their positions with us, Thomas Lowder, as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and James Lowder, as a trustee, may be in a position to influence us to do business with companies in which the Lowder family has a financial interest. Other than a specific procedure for reviewing and approving related party construction activities, we have not adopted a formal policy for the review and approval of conflict of interest transactions generally. Pursuant to our charter, our audit committee reviews and discusses with management and our independent registered public accounting firm any such transaction if deemed material and relevant to an understanding of our financial statements. Our policies and practices may not be successful in eliminating the influence of conflicts. Moreover, transactions with companies controlled by the Lowder family, if any, may not be on terms as favorable to us as we could obtain in an arms-length transaction with a third party. 26 Table of Contents Restrictions on the acquisition and change in control of the Company may have adverse effects on the value of the Trust’s common shares and CRLP’s partnership units. Various provisions of the Trust’s Declaration of Trust restrict the possibility for acquisition or change in control of us, even if the acquisition or change in control were in the shareholders’ interest. As a result, the value of the Trust’s common shares and CRLP’s partnership units may be less than they would otherwise be in the absence of such restrictions. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust contains ownership limits and restrictions on transferability. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust contains certain restrictions on the number of common shares and preferred shares that individual shareholders may own, which is intended to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year and the shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To help avoid violating these requirements, the Trust’s Declaration of Trust contains provisions restricting the ownership and transfer of shares in certain circumstances. These ownership limitations provide that no person may beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than: • 9.8%, in either number of shares or value (whichever is more restrictive), of any class of our outstanding shares; • 5% in number or value (whichever is more restrictive), of our outstanding common shares and any outstanding excess shares; and • in the case of certain excluded holders related to the Lowder family: 29% by one individual; 34% by two individuals; 39% by three individuals; or 44% by four individuals. These ownership limitations may be waived by the Trust’s Board of Trustees if it receives representations and undertakings of certain facts for the protection of our REIT status, and if requested, an IRS ruling or opinion of counsel. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust permits the Trust’s Board of Trustees to issue preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust permits the Board of Trustees of the Trust to issue up to 20,000,000 preferred shares, having those preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by the Board of Trustees. Thus, the Board of Trustees of the Trust could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which some or a majority of shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of shares. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. The Trust’s Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition or change in control of the Company, and, as a result could prevent our shareholders from being paid a premium for their common shares over the then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include: • a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent; • the ability to remove trustees only at a meeting of shareholders called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of trustees; • the limitation that a special meeting of shareholders can be called only by the president or chairman of the board or upon the written request of shareholders holding outstanding shares representing at least 25% of all votes entitled to be cast at the special meeting; • the advance written notice requirement for shareholders to nominate a trustee or submit other business before a meeting of shareholders; and • the requirement that the amendment of certain provisions of the Declaration of Trust relating to the removal of trustees, the termination of the Company and any provision that would have the effect of amending these provisions, require the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares then outstanding. We may change our business policies in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to development, acquisitions, financing, growth, operations, debt capitalization and distributions, are determined by the Trust’s Board of Trustees. A change in these policies could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to service debt. For example, in January 2009, we decided to accelerate our plan to dispose of our for-sale residential assets and land held for future for-sale residential and mixed-use developments and postpone future development activities (including previously identified future development projects) until we determine that the current economic environment has sufficiently improved. As a result of this decision, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $116.9 million, $4.4 million of abandoned pursuit costs and $1.0 million of restructuring charges related to a reduction in our development staff and other overhead personnel. In 27 Table of Contents 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $12.3 million, $2.0 million of abandoned pursuit costs and $1.4 million of restructuring charges related to a reduction in our development staff and other overhead personnel. The Trust’s Board of Trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time in the future, and no assurance can be given that additional amendments or revisions to these or other policies will not result in additional charges or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the Trust’s Shares Market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of the Trust’s common shares. The market price of shares of a REIT may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of the Trust’s shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. This could cause the market price of the Trust’s common shares to go down. In addition, although the Trust’s common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the daily trading volume of the Trust’s shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. As a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. A large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the Trust’s common shares and may be dilutive to current shareholders. The sales of a substantial number of common shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Trust’s common shares. In addition to issuances of shares pursuant to share option and share purchase plans, as of December 31, 2009, we may issue up to 8,162,845 common shares of the Trust upon redemption of currently outstanding units of CRLP. In addition, the Trust has filed a registration statement with the SEC allowing us to offer, from time to time, equity securities of the Trust (including common or preferred shares) for an aggregate initial public offering price of up to $500 million on an as-needed basis and subject to our ability to affect offerings on satisfactory terms based on prevailing conditions. As of December 31, 2009, the Trust had issued 4,802,971 of its common shares, at a weighted average issue price of $9.07 per share, under a continuous equity issuance program and 12,109,500 of its common shares, at an aggregate public offering price of $115,040,250, in an underwritten public offering. The continuous equity issuance program was terminated by the Trust in October 2009 following the completion of the underwritten public offering. Pursuant to the CRLP partnership agreement, each time the Trust issues common shares CRLP issues to the Trust an equal number of units for the same price at which the common shares were sold. Accordingly, CRLP issued 4,802,971 common units to the Trust, at a weighted average issue price of $9.07 per share, in connection with the continuous equity issuance program and 12,109,500 common units to the Trust, at $9.50 per unit, with respect to the common shares issued by the Trust in the underwritten equity offering. Additionally, the Trust’s Board of Trustees can authorize the issuance of additional securities without shareholder approval. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity. No prediction can be made about the effect that future distribution or sales of common shares of the Trust will have on the market price of the Trust’s common shares. We may change our dividend policy. The Trust intends to continue to declare quarterly distributions on its common shares. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion of the Trust’s Board of Trustees and the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon cash generated by operating activities, our financial condition, capital requirements, annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and such other factors as the Trust’s Board of Trustees deem relevant. The Trust’s Board of Trustees reviews the dividend quarterly and there can be no assurance as to the manner in which future dividends will be paid or that the current dividend level will be maintained in future periods. Changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of the Trust’s common shares. We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of the Trust’s common shares. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet the required payments on our preferred shares and the Operating Partnership’s preferred units. Our failure to meet the 28 Table of Contents market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares. The stock markets, including The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), on which the Trust lists its common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of the Trust’s common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in the Trust’s common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following: • our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to ours; • the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); • an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts; and • general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Risks Associated with Income Tax Laws The Trust’s failure to qualify as a REIT would decrease the funds available for distribution to its shareholders and adversely affect the market price of the Trust’s common shares. We believe that the Trust has qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1993. The Trust intends to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT, but it cannot assure shareholders that the Trust will qualify as a REIT. The Trust has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that the Trust qualifies as a REIT, and the statements in this Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. As a REIT, the Trust generally will not be subject to federal income tax on its income that it distributes currently to its shareholders. Many of the REIT requirements are highly technical and complex. The determination that the Trust is a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within its control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. The Trust generally is prohibited from owning more than 10% of the voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception with respect to certain debt instruments and corporations electing to be “taxable REIT subsidiaries.” The Trust is also required to distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). The fact that the Trust holds most of its assets through the CRLP further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize the Trust’s REIT status. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, or the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the Trust to remain qualified as a REIT. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and is unable to avail itself of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code (“IRS”), the Trust would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. As a taxable corporation, the Trust would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing its taxable income or pass through long term capital gains to individual shareholders at favorable rates. The Trust also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. The Trust would not be able to elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify unless the IRS were to grant it relief under certain statutory provisions. If the Trust failed to qualify as a REIT, it would have to pay significant income taxes, which would reduce its net earnings available for investment or distribution to its shareholders. This likely would have a 29 Table of Contents significant adverse effect on the Trust’s earnings and the value of the Trust’s common shares and CRLP’s partnership units. In addition, the Trust would no longer be required to pay any distributions to shareholders. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and is able to avail itself of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain our REIT status, the Trust would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of at least $50,000 or more for each such failure. Moreover, the Trust’s failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under its credit facility and may adversely affect the Trust’s ability to raise capital and to service its debt. Even if the Trust qualifies as a REIT, it will be required to pay some taxes (particularly related to the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiary). Even if the Trust qualifies as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Trust will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. For example, the Trust will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of its REIT taxable income (including capital gains). Moreover, if the Trust has net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. However, the Trust will not be treated as a dealer in real property with respect to a property that it sells for the purposes of the 100% tax if (i) the Trust has held the property for at least two years for the production of rental income prior to the sale, (ii) capitalized expenditures on the property in the two years preceding the sale are less than 30% of the net selling price of the property, and (iii) the Trust either (a) has seven or fewer sales of property (excluding certain property obtained through foreclosure) for the year of sale or (b) the aggregate tax basis of property sold during the year of sale is 10% or less of the aggregate tax basis of all of the Trust’s assets as of the beginning of the taxable year or (c) the fair market value of the property sold during the year of sale is 10% or less of the aggregate fair market value of all of the Trust’s assets as of the beginning of the taxable year and in the case of (b) or (c), substantially all of the marketing and development expenditures with respect to the property sold are made through an independent contractor from whom the Trust derives no income. The sale of more than one property to one buyer as part of one transaction constitutes one sale for purposes of this “safe harbor.” The Trust intends to hold its properties, and CRLP intends to hold its properties, for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring, developing, owning and operating properties, and to make occasional sales of properties as are consistent with our investment objectives. However, not all of the Trust’s sales will satisfy the “safe harbor” requirements described above. Furthermore, there are certain interpretive issues related to the application of the “safe harbor” that are not free from doubt under the federal income tax law. While we acquire and hold our properties with an investment objective and do not believe they constitute dealer property, we cannot provide any assurance that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% penalty tax or that the IRS would not challenge our interpretation of, or any reliance on, the “safe harbor” provisions. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax. The Trust has elected to treat CPSI as a taxable REIT subsidiary, and it may elect to treat other subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by the taxable REIT subsidiaries if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of the Trust’s income even though as a REIT it is not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. To the extent that the Trust and its affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, the Trust will have less cash available for distributions to the Trust’s shareholders. REIT Distribution requirements may increase our indebtedness. The Trust may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances, to accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned but not yet received. In such event, or upon the Trust’s repayment of principal on debt, it could have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of a REIT. Accordingly, we could be required to borrow funds or liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet these distribution requirements. Tax elections regarding distributions may impact our future liquidity. Under certain circumstances, the Trust may make a tax election to treat future distributions to shareholders as distributions in the current year. This election may allow the Trust to avoid increasing its dividends or paying additional income taxes in the current year. However, this could result in a constraint on the Trust’s ability to decrease its dividends in future years without creating risk of either violating the REIT distribution requirements or generating additional income tax liability. 30 Table of Contents We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own common shares, in which case shareholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable partly in cash and partly in our common shares. Under existing IRS guidance with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, up to 90% of such a dividend could be payable in our common shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such shareholder receives cash, REIT shares or a combination of cash and REIT shares. As a result, a shareholder may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a shareholder sells the REIT shares it receives in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, if the market value of our shares decreases following the distribution. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to dividends paid in our common shares. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 