Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We face significant competitive pressures in our business that could cause demand for our products to fall and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lower our prices or lose business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below our prices. In addition, new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for our products to fall, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. The operating results of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • changes in loss reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurer’s liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases, and falling as that activity decreases. The property casualty insurance industry historically is cyclical in nature. These fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic events could result in catastrophe losses. It is possible that one or more catastrophic events could greatly increase claims under the insurance policies we write. This, in turn, could result in losses for one or more of our insurance company subsidiaries. Catastrophes may result from a variety of events or conditions, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail and other severe weather conditions, and may include terrorist events. 21 Table of Contents We generally try to reduce our exposure to catastrophe losses through the underwriting process and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. However, reinsurance may not be sufficient to cover our actual losses. In addition, a number of states from time to time have passed legislation that has had the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation prohibiting an insurer from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas. If we are unable to maintain adequate reinsurance or to withdraw from areas where we experience or expect significant catastrophe-related claims, we could experience significant losses. Because we are heavily regulated by the states in which we operate, we may be limited in the way we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we operate. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. The primary purpose of this supervision and regulation is the protection of our insurance policyholders, not our investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of regulation covers, among other things, the following areas: • issuance, renewal, suspension and revocation of licenses to engage in the insurance business; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the premium rates we charge; • restrictions on the terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; • certain required methods of accounting; • reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; and • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. The regulations of the state insurance departments may affect the cost or demand for our products and may prevent or interfere with our ability to maintain or increase premium rates or take other actions we might wish to take to maintain or increase our profitability. Further, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. We are subject to possible assessments from state insurance facilities and state guaranty funds. We are subject to assessments from various state guaranty funds and state insurance facilities, including Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, the Mississippi Windstorm Underwriting Association and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. If these facilities recognize a financial deficit, they may, in turn, have the ability to assess participating insurers, including our Insurance Subsidiaries, which would adversely affect our results of operations. These facilities are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders. We and other insurance companies writing residential property policies in Florida must participate in the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), which potentially reimburses companies for their qualifying losses at various participating percentages above required retention levels, subject to maximum reimbursement amounts. If the FHCF does not have sufficient funds to pay its ultimate reimbursement obligations to participating insurance companies, it has the authority to issue bonds. Such bonds are funded by assessments on generally all property and casualty premiums in Florida. By law, these assessments are the obligation of insurance policyholders which insurance companies must collect. Companies are required to collect the FHCF assessments directly from residential property policyholders and remit them to the FHCF as they are collected. 22 Table of Contents Our exposure to assessments and the availability of policyholder recoupments or premium rate increases related to these assessments may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of when the assessments are accrued and when the related recoupments are accrued or when related premium rate increases are earned, as well as the possibility of policies not being renewed in subsequent years. Provisions of the Pennsylvania business corporation law, our articles of incorporation and the insurance laws of Pennsylvania, Florida and other states may discourage takeover attempts. The Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law contains “anti-takeover” provisions. We have opted out of most of these provisions. However, Subchapter F of Chapter 25 of the Business Corporation Law, which applies to us, may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over market price for their shares. Subchapter F of the Business Corporation Law prohibits certain “business combinations” between an “interested shareholder” and a corporation, unless the corporation’s board of directors gives prior approval and certain other conditions are satisfied, or there is an available exemption. The term “business combination” is defined broadly to include various merger, consolidation, division, exchange or sale transactions. An “interested shareholder,” in general, is a beneficial owner of shares entitling that person to cast at least 20% of the votes that all shareholders would be entitled to cast in an election of directors. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation allow the Board of Directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock with voting rights, preferences and other privileges as the Board may determine. The issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of our common stock and could prevent, delay or defer a change of control. We are also subject to the laws of various states, such as Pennsylvania, Delaware and Florida, governing insurance holding companies and insurance companies. Under these laws, a person generally must obtain the applicable Insurance Department’s approval to acquire, directly or indirectly, 5% to 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of Philadelphia Insurance or our insurance subsidiaries. An Insurance Department’s determination of whether to approve an acquisition would be based on a variety of factors, including an evaluation of the acquirer’s financial stability, the competence of its management and whether competition in that state would be reduced. These laws may delay or prevent a takeover of Philadelphia Insurance or our insurance company subsidiaries. If our insurance company subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or make loans to us due to government regulations that apply to insurance companies or for any other reason, we may not be able to continue our normal business operations. We are a holding company. Our principal assets currently consist of all or substantially all of the equity interests of our subsidiaries listed below: • Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company; • Philadelphia Insurance Company; • Maguire Insurance Agency, Inc.; • PCHC Investment Corp., an investment holding company; • Liberty American Insurance Group, Inc., an insurance holding company; • Liberty American Select Insurance Company; • Liberty American Insurance Company; • Liberty American Insurance Services, Inc.; and • Liberty American Premium Finance Company. Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company, Philadelphia Insurance Company, Liberty American Select Insurance Company, Inc. and Liberty American Insurance Company are our insurance company subsidiaries which are licensed or authorized to issue insurance policies. Maguire Insurance Agency, Inc. is a captive underwriting manager and Liberty American Insurance Services, Inc. is a managing general agency. 23 Table of Contents Our primary sources of funds are from our subsidiaries for dividends or payments that we receive under tax allocation agreements. Government regulations that apply to insurance companies restrict the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends and make loans to us. The accumulated profits of these subsidiaries from which dividends may be paid totaled $1,025.1 million as of December 31, 2007. Of this amount, these insurance company subsidiaries may pay a total of approximately $299.2 million of dividends during 2008 without obtaining prior approval from the department of insurance for the states in which they are domiciled. Our insurance subsidiaries paid $3.5 million of dividends during 2007. Further, creditors of any of our subsidiaries will have the right to be paid in full the amounts they are owed if a subsidiary liquidates its assets or undergoes a reorganization or other similar transaction before we will have the right to receive any distribution of assets from the subsidiary, unless we also are recognized as a creditor of the subsidiary. If we are unable to receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to continue our normal business operations. If A.M. Best downgrades the ratings of our Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company and Philadelphia Insurance Company subsidiaries, we will not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline, reducing our sales and earnings. A.M. Best Company rates Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company and Philadelphia Insurance Company “A+” (Superior). According to A.M. Best Company, companies rated “A+” (Superior) have, on balance, superior financial strength, operating performance and market profile, when compared to the standards established by A.M. Best Company, and have a very strong ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. We believe that the rating assigned by A.M. Best Company is an important factor in marketing our products. If A.M. Best Company downgrades our ratings in the future, it is likely that: • we would not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors; and • our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our sales and earnings would decrease. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors which are more relevant to policyholders than investors. If our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses are not adequate, we would have to increase our reserves, which would result in reductions in net income and policyholders’ surplus and could result in a downgrading of the ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the insurance policies we write. We determine the amount of these reserves based on our best estimate and judgment of the losses and loss adjustment expenses we will incur on existing insurance policies. While we believe that our reserves are adequate, we base these reserves on assumptions about future events. The following factors may have a substantial impact on our future loss experience: • the amounts of claims settlements; • the number and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes; • legislative and judicial activity; and • changes in inflation and economic conditions. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses we incur under our insurance policies may be different from the amount of reserves we establish. If the actual amount of losses and expenses related to the adjustment of losses under insurance policies exceed the amount we have reserved for these losses and loss adjustment expenses, we would be required to increase our reserves. When we increase reserves, our income before income taxes for the period will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition, increasing reserves causes a reduction in policyholders’ surplus and could cause a downgrading of the ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. This, in turn, could hurt our ability to sell insurance policies. 24 Table of Contents If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries, including catastrophe risks. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities at favorable rates or to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite, especially risks related to catastrophes. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay on a timely basis, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We transfer some of the risk we have assumed to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us, it does not relieve us of our obligation to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. If our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our financial results would be adversely affected. We have a large shareholder whose interests may diverge from those of our other shareholders. Mr. James J. Maguire, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and his wife beneficially own approximately 18.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Other members of Mr. Maguire’s immediate family beneficially own approximately an additional 6.7% of our issued and outstanding common stock (the immediate family beneficial ownership for this purpose excludes beneficial ownership which is attributable to both Mr. James J. Maguire and his wife and immediate family members). Such beneficial ownership is calculated pursuant to Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Consequently, Mr. Maguire will be in a position to strongly influence the outcome of substantially all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including mergers involving us, sales of all or substantially all of our assets, and the adoption of certain amendments to our Articles of Incorporation. In so acting, Mr. Maguire may have interests different than, or adverse to, the rest of our shareholders. The outcome of industry-wide investigations into finite risk reinsurance products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission and a number of state attorneys-general, have initiated investigations and lawsuits relating to finite risk reinsurance arrangements entered into by insurance companies with reinsurers. Finite-risk reinsurance is a form of reinsurance in which, among other things, there is limited risk transferred to the reinsurer. We cannot predict the effects, if any, of these investigations, or any proceedings which may result from these investigations, on our future operations, the insurance industry in general, or changes, if any, which may be made to any laws or regulations. The outcome of these matters could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because our investment portfolio is made up of primarily fixed income securities, our investment income could fluctuate as a result of fluctuations in interest rates and spreads to U.S. Treasury Securities. We currently maintain and intend to continue to maintain an investment portfolio of primarily fixed income securities. The fair value of these securities can fluctuate depending on changes in interest rates and spreads. Generally, the fair market value of these investments increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates, while the level of net investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities is impacted by interest rates. Changes in interest rates and spreads may result in fluctuations in the income derived from, and the valuation of, our fixed income investments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 