ITEM 1A: Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding the Company’s common shares. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. Investment Performance. If we fail to deliver excellent performance for our clients, both in the short and long term, we will likely experience diminished investor interest and potentially a diminished level of AUM. The Company’s assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. Substantially all revenue for the Company is calculated as percentages of assets under management or is based on the general performance of the equity securities market. A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products or an increase in fund redemptions generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines or adverse changes in interest rates would generally negatively impact the level of the Company’s assets under management and consequently its revenue and net income. A recession or other economic or political events could also adversely impact the Company’s revenue if it led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices. The Company’s success depends on its key personnel, and its financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. The Company’s success depends on highly skilled personnel, including portfolio managers, research analysts, and management, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in the industry. Financial services professionals are in high demand, and the Company faces significant competition for qualified employees. With the exception of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment at any time. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. In order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. The loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. Losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. The Company is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of its business. The Company’s investment products compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services from: • asset management firms, • mutual fund companies, • commercial banks and thrift institutions, • insurance companies, • hedge funds, and • brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than the Company and may offer a broader range of products or operate in more markets. Some operate in a different regulatory environment which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. The Company competes with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based our investment performance. Some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. If current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. If we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. 7 Table of Contents A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are based on contracts with the Diamond Hill Funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. We provide investment advisory and administrative services to the Diamond Hill Funds under various agreements. The board of each Diamond Hill Fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and administration agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. If a Diamond Hill Fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the Diamond Hill Funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. The Company derived 54% of its 2006 revenue from investment advisory and administration agreements with Diamond Hill Funds. The Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation. The Company’s business is subject to variety of federal securities laws including the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001. In addition, the Company is subject to significant regulation and oversight by the SEC and NASD. Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations and results, including but not limited to increased expenses and reduced investor interest in certain funds and other investment products offered by the Company. The Company continually monitors legislative, tax, regulatory, accounting, and compliance developments that could impact its business. We will continue to seek to understand, evaluate and when possible, manage and control these and other business risks. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments - None 