Item 1A. Risk Factors. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, whether oral or written. We wish to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to the Trust's shareholders could be materially and adversely affected, and the trading price of the Trust's common shares could decline. These forward-looking statements are based on management's present expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, these statements are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial that also may impair our business operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Associated with Real EstateWe face numerous risks associated with the real estate industry that could adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs.As a real estate company, we are subject to various changes in real estate conditions, particularly in the Sunbelt region where our properties are concentrated, and any negative trends in such real estate conditions may adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. These conditions include:•changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation, government deficits (including the European sovereign debt crisis), high unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence and liquidity concerns, particularly in markets in which we have a high concentration of properties;•fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all;•the inability of residents and tenants to pay rent;•the existence and quality of the competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors' properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record;•increased operating costs, including increased real property taxes, maintenance, insurance and utilities costs;•weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; •oversupply of multifamily, commercial space or single-family housing or a reduction in demand for real estate in the markets in which our properties are located;•a favorable interest rate environment that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our multifamily apartment communities deciding to purchase homes instead of renting; •changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, laws and/or governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes;•rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and•changing trends in the demand by consumers for merchandise offered by retailers conducting business at our retail properties.Moreover, other factors may adversely affect our results of operations, including potential liability under environmental and other laws and other unforeseen events, many of which are discussed elsewhere in the following risk factors. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs.Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents. Our multifamily apartment communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily apartment communities and single-family rental homes, as well as owner-occupied single-family and multifamily homes. Competitive housing in a particular area and an increase in the affordability of owner-occupied single-14Table of Contentsfamily and multifamily homes due to, among other things, declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and tax incentives and government programs to promote home ownership, could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes and increase or maintain rents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.We are subject to significant regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased costs and/or an inability to pursue business opportunities.Local zoning and use laws, environmental statutes and other governmental requirements may restrict or increase the costs of our development, expansion, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities and thus may prevent or delay us from taking advantage of business opportunities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines, awards to private litigants of damages against us, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation or compliance. In addition, we cannot predict what requirements may be enacted in the future or that such requirements will not increase our costs of regulatory compliance or prohibit us from pursuing business opportunities that could be profitable to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.The illiquidity of real estate investments may significantly impede our ability to respond to changes in economic or market conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Real estate investments are relatively illiquid generally, and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell a property or properties quickly or on favorable terms in response to changes in the economy or other conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot sell an unprofitable property. Our financial condition could also be adversely affected if we were, for example, unable to sell one or more of our properties in order to meet our debt obligations upon maturity. In addition, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forgo or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Therefore, we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic, market or other conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Fair Housing Act could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, and the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988, or FHAA, and various state and local laws, all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with these requirements could involve removal of structural barriers from certain disabled persons' entrances. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such means of access. Noncompliance with the ADA, FHAA or related laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines by government authorities, awards to private litigants of damages against us, substantial litigation costs and the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with Our Operations Our revenues are significantly influenced by demand for multifamily properties generally, and a decrease in such demand will likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Our portfolio is focused predominately on multifamily properties. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry, and a decrease in the demand for multifamily properties would likely have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Resident demand at multifamily properties was adversely affected by the recent U.S. recession, including the reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the debt and equity markets, as well as the rate of household formation or population growth in our markets, changes in interest rates or changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing multifamily properties in an area. If the economic recovery slows or stalls, these conditions could persist and we could experience downward pressure on occupancy and market rents at our multifamily properties, which could cause a decrease in our rental revenue. Any such decrease could impair our ability to satisfy our substantial debt service obligations or make distributions to our shareholders. 15Table of ContentsSubstantially all of our properties are located in the Sunbelt region, and adverse economic and other developments in that region could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Substantially all of our properties are located in the Sunbelt region of the United States. In particular, we derived approximately 85.8% of our net operating income in 2011 from top quartile cities located in the Sunbelt region. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse economic, market and other conditions in these geographic areas, including increased unemployment, industry slowdowns, business layoffs or downsizing, decreased consumer confidence and relocation of businesses. Any such adverse developments in the Sunbelt region — and in particular the areas of or near to Atlanta, GA, Charlotte, NC or Austin and Dallas/Fort Worth, TX — could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our inability to dispose of our existing inventory of for-sale residential assets could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had 13 for-sale residential units remaining and 40 residential lots for sale, which may expose us to the following risks, many of which could cause us to hold properties for a longer period than is otherwise desirable:•local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand, may result in reduced or fluctuating sales;•for-sale properties acquired for development usually generate little or no cash flow until completion of development and sale of a significant number of homes or condominium units and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such homes or condominium units are sold;•we may abandon development or conversion opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities;•we may be unable to close on sales of individual units under contract;•buyers may be unable to qualify for financing;•sales prices may be lower than anticipated;•competition from other condominiums and other types of residential housing may result in reduced or fluctuating sales;•we could be subject to liability claims from condominium associations or others asserting that construction performed was defective, resulting in litigation and/or settlement discussions; and•we may be unable to attract sales prices with respect to our for-sale assets that compensate us for our costs (which may result in impairment charges). In 2009, we accelerated our plans to dispose of our for-sale residential assets, including condominium conversions. Since then, economic and market conditions have made it particularly difficult to sell units in a timely manner. During 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recorded $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $12.3 million, respectively, of non-cash impairment charges primarily related to certain for-sale residential units, a commercial development and certain land parcels. See Note 3 — “Real Estate Activity — Impairment and Other Losses” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Trust and CRLP contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these impairment charges. If market conditions do not improve or if there is further market deterioration, it may impact the number of projects we can sell, the timing of the sales and/or the prices at which we can sell them. If we are unable to sell projects, we may incur additional impairment charges on projects previously impaired as well as on projects not currently impaired but for which indicators of impairment may exist, which would decrease the value of our assets as reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our shareholders’ equity. There can be no assurances of the amount or pace of future for-sale residential sales and closings.We may be unable to lease space at our new properties or renew leases or re-lease space at our existing properties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive the majority of our income from residents and tenants who lease space from us at our properties. A number of factors may adversely affect our ability to attract residents and tenants at favorable rental rates and generate sufficient income, including:•local conditions such as an oversupply of, or reduction in demand for, multifamily or commercial properties;•the attractiveness of our properties to residents, shoppers and tenants;•the availability of low interest mortgages for single-family home buyers;•decreases in market rental rates; and•our ability to collect rent from our residents and tenants.16Table of ContentsThe residents at our multifamily properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from six months to one year. Tenants at our office properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from three to ten years and tenants at our retail properties generally enter into leases with an initial term ranging from one to ten years. As leases expire at our existing properties, residents and tenants may elect not to renew them. Even if our residents and tenants do renew or if we can re-lease the space, the terms of renewal or re-leasing, including the cost of required renovations may be less favorable than current lease terms. In addition, for new properties, we may be unable to attract enough residents and tenants, or the occupancy rates and rents may not be sufficient to make the property profitable. Moreover, continued weakness in the economy or a future recession may impede the ability of our residents or tenants to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by residents and tenants. If we are unable to renew the leases or re-lease the space at our existing properties promptly and/or lease the space at our new properties, or if the rental rates upon renewal or re-leasing at existing properties are significantly lower than expected rates, or if there is an increase in tenant defaults, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If recent adverse global market and economic conditions worsen or do not fully recover, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be materially adversely affected. Overall financial market and economic conditions have been challenging in recent years, beginning with the credit crisis and recession in 2008. Challenging economic conditions persisted throughout 2011, including a worsening European sovereign debt crisis and volatility in the debt and equity markets, and although the U.S. economy has emerged from the recent recession, high levels of unemployment have persisted and residential and commercial real estate markets have been slow to recover. If these conditions continue or worsen, there could be an increase in defaults by residents at our multifamily properties and tenants at our commercial properties, which could adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates has been adversely affected in recent years by the increase in supply and deterioration in the multifamily market stemming from the recent recession. With regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may further reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and further depress rental rates in certain markets. With regard to for-sale residential properties, the market for our for-sale residential properties depends on an active demand for new for-sale housing and high consumer confidence. Decreased demand, exacerbated by tighter credit standards for home buyers and foreclosures, has further contributed to an oversupply of housing alternatives, adversely affecting the timing of sales and price at which we are able to sell our for-sale residential properties and thereby adversely affecting our profits from for-sale residential properties. We cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the economic recovery slows or stalls, our ability to lease our properties, our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets and the pace of condominium sales and closings and/or the related sales prices may weaken in 2012. Our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenues decrease, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Costs associated with our business, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance costs, are relatively inflexible and generally do not decrease, and may increase, when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, a tenant fails to pay rent or other circumstances cause a reduction in property revenues. As a result, if revenues drop, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to collect balances due from any tenants in bankruptcy. We cannot assure you that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection or becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings will continue to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that we will recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold which would result in a reduction in our cash flow and in the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.17Table of Contents Risks associated with the property management, leasing and brokerage businesses could adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing our revenues. In addition to the risks we face as a result of our ownership of real estate, we face risks relating to the property management, leasing and brokerage businesses of CPSI, including risks that:•management contracts or service agreements with third-party owners will be terminated and lost to competitors;•contracts will not be renewed upon expiration or will not be available for renewal on terms consistent with current terms; and•leasing and brokerage activity generally may decline.Each of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing our revenues.We could incur significant costs related to environmental issues which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased compliance costs or our financial condition if we become subject to a significant liability. Under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of on real property, may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating hazardous substances on or under or released from the property and for damages to natural resources. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation & Liability Act, and similar state laws, may impose liability on a joint and several basis, regardless of whether the owner, operator or other responsible party knew of or was at fault for the release or presence of hazardous substances. In connection with the ownership or operation of our properties, we could be liable in the future for costs associated with investigation and remediation of hazardous substances released at or from such properties. The costs of any required remediation and related liability as to any property could be substantial under these laws and could exceed the value of the property and/or our assets. The presence of hazardous substances or the failure to properly remediate those substances may result in our being liable for damages suffered by a third party for personal injury, property damage, cleanup costs, damage to natural resources or otherwise and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent a property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which that property may be used or how businesses may be operated on that property.In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, including laws governing the management of wastes and underground and aboveground storage tanks. Noncompliance with these environmental, health and safety laws could subject us or our tenants to liability. These environmental liabilities could affect a tenant's ability to make rental payments to us. Moreover, compliance with these laws may require significant expenditures. Interpretation of these laws and the restrictions themselves may change from time to time, and these changes may result in additional expenditures in order to achieve compliance. We cannot assure you that a material environmental claim or compliance obligation will not arise in the future. The costs of defending against any claims of liability, of remediating a contaminated property, or of complying with future environmental requirements could be substantial and affect our operating results. In addition, if a judgment is obtained against us or we otherwise become subject to a significant environmental liability, our financial condition may be adversely affected.Costs associated with addressing indoor air quality issues, moisture infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be costly. As a general matter, concern about indoor exposure to mold or other air contaminants has been increasing as such exposure has been alleged to have a variety of adverse effects on health. As a result, there have been a number of lawsuits in our industry against owners and managers of apartment communities relating to indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and resulting mold. The terms of our property and general liability policies generally exclude certain mold-related claims. Should an uninsured loss arise against us, we would be required to use our funds to resolve the issue, including litigation costs. We make no assurance that liabilities resulting from indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a future impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As the owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our properties. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing materials. Environmental laws typically require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately 18Table of Contentsinform or train those who may come in contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, third parties may be entitled to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we are self-insured up to $0.8 million, $0.9 million and $1.8 million for general liability, workers’ compensation and property insurance, respectively. We are also self-insured for health insurance and responsible for amounts up to $135,000 per claim and up to $2.0 million per person, according to plan policy limits. If the actual costs incurred to cover such uninsured claims are significantly greater than our budgeted costs, our financial condition will be adversely affected.We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties and appropriate given the relative risk of loss and the cost of the coverage. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, and in some cases, earthquakes, hurricanes and flooding that generally are not insured because such coverage is not available or it is not available at commercially reasonable rates. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable costs in the future, as the costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. We may be unable to develop new properties or redevelop existing properties successfully, which could adversely affect our results of operations due to unexpected costs, delays and other contingencies. As part of our operating strategy, we intend to continue to develop new properties and to expand and/or redevelop existing properties as market conditions warrant. Development activity may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliates or through joint ventures. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general as described above, there are significant risks associated with development activities including the following:•we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs and/or lower than expected leases;•we may incur development costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, changes in development plans or unforeseen environmental conditions, which could make completion of the property more costly or uneconomical;•land, insurance and construction costs may be higher than expected in our markets; therefore, we may be unable to attract rents that compensate for these increases in costs; •we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities;•rental rates and occupancy levels may be lower than anticipated;•changes in applicable zoning and land use laws may require us to abandon projects prior to their completion, resulting in the loss of development costs incurred up to the time of abandonment; and•possible delays in completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals, or other factors outside of our control. In addition, if a project is delayed, certain residents and tenants may have the right to terminate their leases. Furthermore, from time to time we may utilize tax-exempt bond financing through the issuance of community development and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs. Under the terms of such bond financings, we may be responsible for paying assessments on the underlying property to meet debt service obligations on the bonds until the underlying property is sold. Accordingly, if we are unable to complete or sell a development property subject to such bond financing and we are forced to hold the property longer than we originally projected, we may be obligated to continue to pay assessments to meet debt service obligations under the bonds. If we are unable to pay the assessments, a default will occur under the bonds and the property could be foreclosed upon. Any one or more of these risks may cause us to incur unexpected development costs, which 19Table of Contentswould negatively affect our results of operations. Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners. We have in the past and may in the future develop and acquire properties with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. Our investments in these joint ventures involve risks not customarily associated with our wholly-owned properties, including the following:•we share decision-making authority with some of our joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and the joint venture properties, such as the acquisition of properties, the sale of the properties or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the properties, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by those joint venture partners;•prior consent of our joint venture partners is required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the joint venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interest in the joint venture;•our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a joint venture property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;•our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the joint venture properties that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of such properties;•disputes with our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business, and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the property such as by delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved (see, for example, the discussion under Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings" in this Form 10-K);•our joint venture partners may be unsuccessful in refinancing or replacing existing mortgage indebtedness, or may choose not to do so, which could adversely affect the value of our joint venture interest;•we may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments;•our joint venture partner may elect to sell or transfer its interests in the joint venture to a third party, which may result in our loss of management and leasing responsibilities and fees that we currently receive from the joint venture properties; and •we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners, and their activities could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, even though we do not control the joint venture. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We intend to cooperate with our joint venture partners in connection with their efforts to refinance and/or replace any outstanding joint venture indebtedness, which may include property dispositions by the joint venture and/or additional capital contributions by us from time to time. There can be no assurance that our joint ventures will be successful in refinancing and/or replacing such existing debt at maturity or otherwise. The failure to refinance and/or restructure such debt could materially adversely affect the value of our joint venture interests and therefore the value of our joint venture investments, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to complete acquisitions and, even if we complete acquisitions, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and operating results from our acquisitions, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We will acquire multifamily properties only if they meet our criteria and we believe that they will enhance our future financial performance and the value of our portfolio. Our belief, however, is based on certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property and is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are forward-looking and are uncertain in nature or are beyond our control. In particular, our acquisition activities pose the following risks to our ongoing operations: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors, including other publicly traded REITs, private REITs, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, pension trusts, trust funds, investment banking firms, and private institutional investment funds;20Table of Contents•even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price;•we may not achieve the increased occupancy, cost savings and operational efficiencies projected at the time of acquiring a property;•management may incur significant costs and expend significant resources evaluating and negotiating potential acquisitions, including those that we subsequently are unable to complete;•we may acquire properties or other real estate-related investments that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and operate those properties to meet our expectations;•we may acquire properties outside of our existing markets where we are less familiar with local economic and market conditions; •some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of the acquisition;•we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all;•we may be unable to reinvest restricted proceeds pending the fulfillment of Section 1031 exchange requirements;•we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and•we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, and claims for indemnification by general partners, trustees, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.If we cannot finance property acquisitions in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing ActivitiesOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of our total debt was approximately $1.9 billion, consisting of $1.8 billion of consolidated debt and $0.1 billion of our pro rata share of joint venture debt. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. The degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: •we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; •we may not be able to refinance some or all of our indebtedness and any refinancing may not be on terms as favorable as those of our existing indebtedness;•to repay indebtedness as it matures, we may be forced to sell one or more properties, possibly on unfavorable terms, or raise additional equity at prices that may be dilutive to existing shareholders; •debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; •we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; •we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; •we may not be able to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes; and•we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure.If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to pursue strategic opportunities, refinance or repay our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs from income from operations. As a result, when we engage in the development or acquisition of new properties or expansion or redevelopment of existing properties, we will continue to rely on third-party sources of capital, including lines of credit, collateralized or unsecured debt (both construction financing and permanent debt), and equity issuances. Our access to 21Table of Contentsthird-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's view of the quality of our assets, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current debt levels and our current and expected future earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund our current or new developments or project expansions or our acquisition activities on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient level of third party financing to fund our capital needs, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected.In addition, although most of our indebtedness does not require significant principal payments prior to maturity, we will need to raise additional equity capital, obtain collateralized or unsecured debt financing, issue private or public debt, or sell some of our assets to either refinance or repay our indebtedness as it matures. For example, our existing $675.0 million unsecured credit facility matures in June 2012 and we expect to refinance that facility or enter into a new credit facility prior to maturity, but there can be no assurance that the financial terms or covenants of any refinanced or new facility will be the same or as favorable as those under our existing credit facility. If we are not successful in refinancing our debt when it becomes due, we may default under our loan obligations, enter into foreclosure proceedings, or be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, any of which could adversely affect our ability to service other debt and to meet our other obligations.Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our unsecured credit facility and unsecured term loan contain restrictions on the amount of debt we may incur and other restrictions and requirements on our operations, including the following financial ratios:•secured debt to total asset value ratio;•fixed charge coverage ratio;•total liabilities to total asset value ratio;•total permitted investments to total asset value ratio; and•unencumbered leverage ratio.The indenture under which our senior unsecured debt is issued also contains financial and operating covenants including coverage ratios and limitations on the amount of debt we may incur. Certain of our mortgage indebtedness also contains customary covenants which, among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage.These restrictions, as well as any additional restrictions which we may become subject to in connection with additional financings or refinancings, could restrict on our ability to pursue some business initiatives, effect certain transactions or make other changes to our business that may otherwise be beneficial to our company, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, violations of these covenants could cause the declaration of defaults and acceleration of any related indebtedness, which would result in adverse consequences to our financial condition. Our credit facility and unsecured term loan also contain cross-default provisions that give the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in excess of certain amounts. In the event of a default, we may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources, which may not be available to us on attractive terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.Potential reduction or elimination of the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the multifamily financing sector could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of financing for secured multifamily real estate in the United States, and we have benefited from our ability to borrow from these entities. In February 2011, as part of the Obama administration's financial industry recovery proposal, the U.S. Treasury, in consultation with the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other government agencies, issued a report that set forth options to reform the U.S. housing market, all of which involve an eventual phasing out of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. However, it is not now possible to predict the impact resulting from such a phase-out may have on financing for the multifamily sector and thus on our business. If the U.S. government decides to eliminate Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or reduce government support for apartment mortgage loans, and if other sources of financing do not enter the market to replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, it may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and thus to acquire or develop new properties. In addition, such a decision by the U.S. government may adversely affect the number of properties we can sell, the timing of the sales and/or the prices at which we can sell them, as prospective buyers also may experience difficulty in obtaining financing on favorable terms. As a result, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 22Table of ContentsIndebtedness secured by our properties exposes us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of the property that secures the indebtedness and any rents to which we would be entitled from leases on that property.As of December 31, 2011, approximately 39% of our consolidated indebtedness was secured by our real estate assets. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon that property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies. In addition, as a result of cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions contained in certain of our mortgage loans, a default under one mortgage loan could result in a default on other indebtedness and cause us to lose other better performing properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any nonrecourse mortgage on any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds from the disposition of the property, which could adversely affect our ability to our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain sufficient third party financing for our capital needs, including development, expansion, acquisition and other activities, on favorable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect us. Disruptions in the credit markets generally, or relating to the real estate industry specifically, may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing at favorable rates or at all. In 2008 and 2009, the U.S. stock and credit markets experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. Those circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of financing, even for companies that were otherwise qualified to obtain financing. Continued volatility and uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing for our capital needs, including development, expansion, acquisition and other activities, on favorable terms or at all, which may negatively affect our business. Additionally, we may be unable to refinance or extend our existing indebtedness or the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. If a dislocation similar to that which occurred in 2008 and 2009 occurs in the future, we may be forced to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and to adjust our business plan accordingly. Such events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of the Trust's common shares, preferred shares or subordinated notes. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are required to perform under various financial guarantees that we have provided with respect to certain of our joint ventures and retail developments. From time to time, we guarantee portions of the indebtedness of certain of our unconsolidated joint ventures. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Guarantees and Other Arrangements” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a description of the guarantees that we have provided with respect to the indebtedness of certain of our joint ventures as of December 31, 2011. From time to time, in connection with certain retail developments, we receive funding from municipalities for infrastructure costs through the issuance of bonds that are repaid primarily from sales tax revenues generated from the tenants at each respective development. In some instances, we guarantee the shortfall, if any, of tax revenues to the debt service requirements on these bonds. If we are required to fund any amounts related to any of these guarantees, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to ultimately recover funded amounts.Due to the amount of our variable rate debt, rising interest rates would adversely affect our results of operation. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $209.6 million of variable rate debt outstanding, consisting of $196.8 million of our consolidated debt and $12.8 million of our pro rata share of variable rate unconsolidated joint venture debt. While we have sought to cap our exposure to interest rate fluctuations by using interest rate swap agreements where appropriate, failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, interest rate swap agreements and other hedging arrangements may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, as opportunities arise, we may borrow additional money with variable interest rates in the future. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates would adversely affect our results of operations.23Table of ContentsOur senior notes do not have an established trading market; therefore, holders of our notes may not be able to sell their notes.Each series of CRLP's senior notes is a new issue of securities with no established trading market. We do not intend to apply for listing of any series of notes on any national securities exchange. The underwriters in an offering of senior notes may advise us that they intend to make a market in the notes, but they are not obligated to do so and may discontinue market making at any time without notice. We can give no assurance as to the liquidity of or any trading market for any series of our notes.A downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In March 2009, Moody's and Standard & Poor's lowered their credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt to Ba1 from Baa3 and to BB+ from BBB-, respectively, resulting in an increase in the pricing under our credit facility from LIBOR plus 75 basis points to LIBOR plus 105 basis points. The downgrades had the effect of increasing our borrowing costs, and further downgrades, while not impacting our borrowing costs, could shorten borrowing periods, thereby adversely impacting our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limiting our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Organization and StructureSome of our trustees and officers have conflicts of interest and could exercise influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of our shareholders.As a result of their substantial ownership of common shares and units, Messrs. Thomas Lowder, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James Lowder and Harold Ripps, each of whom is a trustee, could seek to exert influence over our decisions as to sales or re-financings of particular properties we own. Any such exercise of influence could produce decisions that are not in the best interest of all of the holders of interests in us.The Lowder family and their affiliates hold interests in a company that has performed insurance brokerage services with respect to our properties. This company may perform similar services for us in the future. As a result, the Lowder family may realize benefits from transactions between this company and us that are not realized by other holders of interests in us. In addition, given their positions with us, Thomas Lowder, as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and James Lowder, as a trustee, may be in a position to influence us to do business with companies in which the Lowder family has a financial interest. Other than a specific procedure for reviewing and approving related party construction activities, we have not adopted a formal policy for the review and approval of conflict of interest transactions generally. Pursuant to our charter, our audit committee reviews and discusses with management and our independent registered public accounting firm any such transaction if deemed material and relevant to an understanding of our financial statements. Our policies and practices may not be successful in eliminating the influence of conflicts. Moreover, transactions with companies controlled by the Lowder family, if any, may not be on terms as favorable to us as we could obtain in an arms-length transaction with a third party.Restrictions on the acquisition and change in control of the Company may have adverse effects on the value of the Trust's common shares and CRLP's partnership units. Various provisions of the Trust's Declaration of Trust restrict the possibility for acquisition or change in control of us, even if the acquisition or change in control were in the shareholders' interest. As a result, the value of the Trust's common shares and CRLP's partnership units may be less than they would otherwise be in the absence of such restrictions.The Trust's Declaration of Trust contains ownership limits and restrictions on transferability. The Trust's Declaration of Trust contains certain restrictions on the number of common shares and preferred shares that individual shareholders may own, which is intended to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year and the shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To help avoid violating these requirements, the Trust's Declaration of Trust contains provisions restricting the ownership and transfer of shares in certain circumstances. These ownership limitations provide that no person may beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than:24Table of Contents•9.8%, in either number of shares or value (whichever is more restrictive), of any class of our outstanding shares;•5% in number or value (whichever is more restrictive), of our outstanding common shares and any outstanding excess shares; and•in the case of certain excluded holders related to the Lowder family: 29% by one individual; 34% by two individuals; 39% by three individuals; or 44% by four individuals.These ownership limitations may be waived by the Trust's Board of Trustees if it receives representations and undertakings of certain facts for the protection of our REIT status, and if requested, an IRS ruling or opinion of counsel.The Trust's Declaration of Trust permits the Trust's Board of Trustees to issue preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. The Trust's Declaration of Trust permits the Board of Trustees of the Trust to issue up to 20,000,000 preferred shares, having those preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by the Board of Trustees. Thus, the Board of Trustees of the Trust could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which some or a majority of shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of shares. The Trust's Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. The Trust's Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition or change in control of the Company, and, as a result could prevent our shareholders from being paid a premium for their common shares over the then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include: •a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent;•the ability to remove trustees only at a meeting of shareholders called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of trustees; •the limitation that a special meeting of shareholders can be called only by the president or chairman of the board or upon the written request of shareholders holding outstanding shares representing at least 25% of all votes entitled to be cast at the special meeting;•the advance written notice requirement for shareholders to nominate a trustee or submit other business before a meeting of shareholders; and•the requirement that the amendment of certain provisions of the Declaration of Trust relating to the removal of trustees, the termination of the Company and any provision that would have the effect of amending these provisions, require the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares then outstanding.We may change our business policies in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.Our major policies, including our policies with respect to development, acquisitions, financing, growth, operations, debt capitalization and distributions, are determined by the Trust's Board of Trustees. A change in these policies could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to service debt. The Trust's Board of Trustees may amend or revise policies from time to time in the future, and no assurance can be given that additional amendments or revisions to these policies will not result in additional charges or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the Trust's SharesMarket interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of the Trust's common shares. The market price of shares of a REIT may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of the Trust's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. This could cause the market price of the Trust's common shares to go down. In addition, although the Trust's common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the daily trading volume of the Trust's shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. As a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares.25Table of ContentsA large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the Trust's common shares and may be dilutive to current shareholders. The sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. As of December 31, 2011 there were 125,000,000 common shares authorized under our Declaration of Trust, as amended, of which 87,473,572 were outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Our Board of Trustees may authorize the issuance of additional authorized but unissued common shares or other authorized but unissued securities at any time, including pursuant to share option and share purchase plans. In addition to issuances of shares pursuant to share option and share purchase plans, as of December 31, 2011, we may issue up to 7,169,388 common shares upon redemption of currently outstanding units of our operating partnership. We also have filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission allowing the Trust to offer, from time to time, an unspecified amount of equity securities of the Trust (including common and preferred shares) and allowing CRLP to offer, from time to time, an unspecified amount of debt securities. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity. No prediction can be made about the effect that future distribution or sales of the Trust's common or preferred shares or CRLP's debt securities will have on the market price of the Trust's common shares. We may change our dividend policy. The Trust intends to continue to declare quarterly distributions on its common shares. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion of the Trust's Board of Trustees and the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon cash generated by operating activities, our financial condition, capital requirements, annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and such other factors as the Trust's Board of Trustees deem relevant. The Trust's Board of Trustees reviews the dividend quarterly and there can be no assurance as to the manner in which future dividends will be paid or that the current dividend level will be maintained in future periods.Changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of the Trust's common shares. We believe that the market value of a REIT's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of the Trust's common shares. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet the required payments on our preferred shares and the Operating Partnership's preferred units. Our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares.The stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, on which the Trust lists its common shares, historically have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of the Trust's common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in the Trust's common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following:•our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;•actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly operating results;•changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;•publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts;•additions and departures of key personnel;•strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;•the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to ours;•the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies);•an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares;•the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry;•speculation in the press or investment community;•actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds;26Table of Contents•changes in accounting principles;•terrorist acts; and •general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources.Risks Associated with Income Tax Laws The Trust’s failure to qualify as a REIT would decrease the funds available for distribution to its shareholders and adversely affect the market price of the Trust’s common shares.We believe that the Trust has qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1993. The Trust intends to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT, but it cannot assure shareholders that the Trust will qualify as a REIT. The Trust has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that the Trust qualifies as a REIT, and the statements in this Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. As a REIT, the Trust generally will not be subject to federal income tax on its income that it distributes currently to its shareholders. Many of the REIT requirements are highly technical and complex. The determination that the Trust is a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within its control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. The Trust generally is prohibited from owning more than 10% of the voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception with respect to certain debt instruments and corporations electing to be “taxable REIT subsidiaries.” The Trust is also required to distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). The fact that the Trust holds most of its assets through CRLP further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize the Trust’s REIT status. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, or the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the Trust to remain qualified as a REIT. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and is unable to avail itself of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, the Trust would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. As a taxable corporation, the Trust would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing its taxable income or pass through long term capital gains to individual shareholders at favorable rates. The Trust also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. The Trust would not be able to elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify unless the IRS were to grant it relief under certain statutory provisions. If the Trust failed to qualify as a REIT, it would have to pay significant income taxes, which would reduce its net earnings available for investment or distribution to its shareholders. This likely would have a significant adverse effect on the Trust’s earnings and the value of the Trust’s common shares and CRLP’s partnership units. In addition, the Trust would no longer be required to pay any distributions to shareholders and all distributions to shareholders would be taxable as ordinary C corporation dividends to the extent of the Trust's current and accumulated earnings and profits. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and is able to avail itself of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain its REIT status, the Trust would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of at least $50,000 or more for each such failure. Moreover, the Trust’s failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under its credit facility and may adversely affect the Trust’s ability to raise capital and to service its debt. Even if the Trust qualifies as a REIT, it will be required to pay some taxes (particularly related to the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiary). Even if the Trust qualifies as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Trust will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. For example, the Trust will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of its REIT taxable income (including capital gains). Moreover, if the Trust has net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. However, the Trust will not be treated as a dealer in real property with respect to a property that it sells for the purposes of the 100% tax if (i) the Trust has held the property for at least two years for the production of rental income prior to the sale, (ii) capitalized expenditures on the property in the two years preceding the sale are less than 30% of the net selling price of the property, and (iii) the Trust either (a) has seven or fewer sales of property (excluding certain property obtained through foreclosure) for the year of sale or (b) the aggregate tax basis of property sold during the year of sale is 10% or less of the aggregate tax basis of all of the Trust’s assets as of the beginning of the taxable year or (c) the fair market value of the property sold during the year of sale is 10% or less of 27Table of Contentsthe aggregate fair market value of all of the Trust’s assets as of the beginning of the taxable year and in the case of (b) or (c), substantially all of the marketing and development expenditures with respect to the property sold are made through an independent contractor from whom the Trust derives no income. The sale of more than one property to one buyer as part of one transaction constitutes one sale for purposes of this “safe harbor”. The Trust intends to hold its properties, and CRLP intends to hold its properties, for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring, developing, owning and operating properties, and to make occasional sales of properties as are consistent with our investment objectives. However, not all of the Trust’s sales will satisfy the “safe harbor” requirements described above. Furthermore, there are certain interpretive issues related to the application of the “safe harbor” that are not free from doubt under the federal income tax law. While the Trust acquires and holds properties with an investment objective and does not believe they constitute dealer property, we cannot provide any assurance that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% penalty tax or that the IRS would not challenge our interpretation of, or any reliance on, the “safe harbor” provisions. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from the Trust’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax. The Trust has elected to treat CPSI as a taxable REIT subsidiary, and it may elect to treat other subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by the taxable REIT subsidiaries if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of the Trust’s income even though as a REIT it is not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. To the extent that the Trust and its affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, the Trust will have less cash available for distributions to the Trust’s shareholders.REIT distribution requirements may increase our indebtedness. The Trust may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances, to accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned but not yet received. In such event, or upon the Trust’s repayment of principal on debt, it could have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of a REIT. Accordingly, the Trust could be required to borrow funds or liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet these distribution requirements. Tax elections regarding distributions may impact our future liquidity. Under certain circumstances, the Trust may make a tax election to treat future distributions to shareholders as distributions in the current year. This election may allow the Trust to avoid increasing its dividends or paying additional income taxes in the current year. However, this could result in a constraint on the Trust’s ability to decrease its dividends in future years without creating risk of either violating the REIT distribution requirements or generating additional income tax liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.