ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider the significant business risks described below in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The following list of risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment, and new risk factors may emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors nor assess the impact, if any, on the business, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause the actual results of operations to differ materially. Competitive pressures in the marketplace could decrease revenues and profits: Competitive pressures in the marketplace for our products could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. We operate in an environment where competition varies from moderate to intense and a number of our competitors have greater financial resources. Our competitors also include alliance partners that sell products that do or may compete with our products, particularly those that provide AMR or AMI connectivity solutions. The principal elements of competition for our most significant product lines, residential and commercial water meters for the utility market (with various AMR/AMI technology systems), are price, product technology, quality and service. The competitive environment is also affected by the movement toward AMR or AMI technologies away from manually read meters, the demand for replacement units and, to a lesser extent, the number of housing starts in the United States. For our industrial products, the competitive environment is affected by the general economic health of the industrial sectors in the United States and Europe. Technological developments could harm future success: We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop technologically advanced products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards. Although we believe that we currently have such advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages will require continued investment in research and development, sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantages. We are not currently aware of any emerging standards or new products that could render our existing products obsolete. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials could decrease profit margins and negatively impact timely delivery to customers: We are affected by the availability and prices for raw materials, including metal or alloys (such as bronze, which uses copper as its main component, aluminum, stainless steel, cast iron, brass and stellite), plastic resins, glass, microprocessors and other electronic subassemblies and components that are used in the manufacturing process. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing profit margins and by negatively impacting timely deliveries to customers. In the past, we have been able to offset increases in raw materials by increased sales prices, active materials management, product engineering programs and the diversity of materials used in the production processes. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to accomplish this in the future. Since we do not control the actual production of these raw materials, there may be delays caused by interruption in the production of raw materials for reasons that are beyond our control. World commodity markets and inflation may also affect raw material prices. 5 A significant economic downturn could cause a material adverse impact on sales and operating results: As a supplier of products primarily to water utilities, we may be adversely affected by general economic downturns that affect independent distributors, large city utilities, private water companies and numerous smaller municipal water utilities. These customers may delay capital projects, including non-critical maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns or instability in world markets. While we also serve several industrial markets to avoid a dependency on any one market, a significant downturn in these markets could also cause a material adverse impact on sales and operating results. Therefore, any significant downturn in general economic conditions, as well as in our customers’ markets, could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm the business. Failure to manufacture quality products could impact the ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business: If we fail to maintain and enforce quality control and testing procedures, our products will not meet the performance standards in the industry. Product quality and performance are a priority for us since our products are used in various industries where precise control of fluids is essential, and we believe we have a very good reputation for product quality. Substandard products would seriously harm our reputation, resulting in both a loss of current customers to competitors and damage to our ability to attract new customers. In addition, if any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. A successful claim brought against us with respect to a defective product in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in a major product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Litigation against us could be costly, time consuming to defend and could adversely affect profitability: From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We may also be subject to workers’ compensation claims, employment disputes, unfair labor practice charges, customer and supplier disputes, product liability claims and contractual disputes related to warranties arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our profitability or financial condition. Changes in environmental or regulatory requirements could entail additional expenses that could decrease profitability: We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future environmental or regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with such laws or regulations may entail additional expenses that could decrease profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, such as lead content in certain meters incorporating brass housings, and regulatory laws affecting the use and/or licensing of radio frequencies necessary for AMR/AMI products, as well as regulations related to customs and trade practices. Currently, the cost of complying with existing laws does not have a material effect on the business or financial position. Risks related to foreign markets could decrease profitability: Since we sell products worldwide as well as manufacture products in several countries, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. These risks include changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, differing labor regulations, and the difficulty of managing widespread operations. Operational dependence on attracting and retaining skilled employees could negatively impact growth and decrease profitability: The Company’s success depends on its continuing ability to identify, attract, develop and retain skilled personnel throughout the organization. Current and future compensation arrangements, including benefits, may not 6 be successful in attracting new employees or retaining existing employees, which may hinder the Company’s growth. In addition, the Company estimates liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits that require the use of assumptions relating to the rates used to discount the future estimated liability, rate of return on any assets and various assumptions related to the age and cost of the workforce. Actual results may differ from the estimates and have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or on the financial statements as a whole. Rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the United States may also add to the Company’s cost pressures and decrease profitability. Risks to the Company’s reputation could adversely affect success: The Company has a history of good corporate governance, including procedures and processes that existed prior to the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations, board committee charters, and a Code of Business Conduct that defines how employees interact with various Company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. Failure to maintain this reputation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or products in the future could adversely affect the operations: As part of our business strategy, we will continue to evaluate and may pursue selected business or product acquisition opportunities that we believe may provide us with certain operating and financial benefits. If we complete any such acquisitions, they may require integration into our existing business with respect to administrative, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other functions to realize these anticipated benefits. If we are unable to successfully integrate a business or product acquisition, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities may arise after completion of an acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 