ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Forward-Looking Statements,” which are included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS The volatility of natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices could adversely affect our cash flow. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities received as payment for our natural gas gathering and processing services, for transportation and storage of natural gas and NGLs, and for the fractionation of NGLs. As a result, we are sensitive to commodity price fluctuations. Commodity prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. High commodity prices and large commodity price spreads may not continue and could drop precipitously in a short period of time. Our commodity prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including the following: • relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; • market uncertainty; • the availability and cost of transportation capacity; 15 Table of Contents • the level of consumer product demand; • geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • speculation in the commodity futures markets; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • the price of natural gas, crude oil, NGL and liquefied natural gas imports; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. As commodity prices decline, we are paid less for our commodities, thereby reducing our cash flow. In addition, production and related volumes could also decline. We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, adversely affecting our results of operations. Our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs and crude oil prices. Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. Our primary exposure arises from commodity prices with respect to our processing agreements, the difference between NGL and natural gas prices with respect to our natural gas and NGL transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements, and the differential between the individual NGL products and NGLs in storage utilized by our natural gas liquids operations. To manage the risk from market fluctuations in natural gas, NGL and condensate prices, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options. However, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk. Accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. Our use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. We utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. Hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we have contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. Hedging arrangements that are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas and NGLs exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and new processing and treating facilities or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or NGL supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to our existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. The construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. Construction projects in our industry may increase demand on labor and material which may in turn impact our costs and schedule. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. Additionally, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. We may have only limited natural gas or NGL supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Additionally, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or NGLs to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our inability to execute growth and development projects and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to our unitholders. Our primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders and to increase our quarterly cash distributions over time. Our ability to maintain and grow our distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of our existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. Accordingly, if we are unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities, and processing and fractionation plants. Operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities), and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our control. It is also possible that our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Liabilities incurred, and interruptions to the operation of our pipeline caused by such an event, could reduce revenues generated by us and increase expenses, thereby impairing our ability to meet our obligations. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. If the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions substantially declines, our volumes and revenues could decline. Our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions. Drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, including: • demand for natural gas and refinery-grade crude oil; • producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; • natural gas field characteristics and production performance; • surface access and infrastructure issues; and • capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and our facilities. In addition, drilling and production are impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. If the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, our volumes and revenue could be reduced. If production from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin is greater in market areas other than the Midwestern United States, demand for our interstate transportation services could significantly decrease. We depend on natural gas supply from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin because our interstate pipelines primarily transport Canadian natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin to the Midwestern U.S. market area. If demand for natural gas increases in Canada or other markets not served by our pipelines and production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on our interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. In December 2003, the United States Department of Transportation issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The final rule requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. The final rule incorporates the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 and became effective in January 2004. The results of these testing programs could cause us to 17 Table of Contents incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. Our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties. The natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the FERC and U.S. Congress, especially in light of previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce. In response to this issue, the U.S. Congress, in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. The FERC then adopted the Market Manipulation Rules to implement the authority granted under EPACT. These rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. EPACT also gave the FERC increased penalty authority for violations. Our regulated natural gas pipelines’ transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. Our regulated pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of our pipeline business, including our transportation rates. Under the Natural Gas Act, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Under Northern Border Pipeline’s 2006 rate case settlement, there is a three-year moratorium preventing Northern Border Pipeline from filing rate cases and the participants from challenging Northern Border Pipeline’s rates, and a requirement that Northern Border Pipeline file a rate case within six years. Our regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. Accounting policies for FERC-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under GAAP for nonregulated entities. We consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. If we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. The risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. Examples of these laws include: • the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewaters from our facilities to state and federal waters; • the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and • the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. Various governmental authorities, including the United States EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. There is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport and process, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become 18 Table of Contents necessary, some of which may be material. Additional information is included under Item 1, Business under “Environmental and Safety Matters” and in Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might also adversely affect our products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect our profitability. In the competition for customers, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation capacity on our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. Our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines compete with other pipelines for natural gas and natural gas liquids supplies delivered to the markets we serve. As a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our pipelines, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers. Our customers are predominantly producers, NGL end users and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit worthiness or ability to pay us for our services. We assess the credit worthiness of our customers and obtain security as we deem appropriate. If we fail to adequately assess the credit worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if any of our customers file for bankruptcy protection, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN US The issuance of Class B units to ONEOK in connection with the acquisition of the ONEOK Energy Assets diluted our then current unitholders’ ownership interests. In connection with the acquisition of the ONEOK Energy Assets, we issued approximately 36.5 million Class B limited partner units to ONEOK. The issuance of the Class B units decreased our then current common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us. The Class B units are eligible to convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at ONEOK’s option due to approval of such conversion by our common unitholders at a special meeting of common unitholders held in March 2007. In addition, ONEOK may, from time to time, sell all or a portion of its common units. Sales of substantial amounts of its common units, or the anticipation of such sales, could lower the market price of our common units and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. ONEOK could withdraw the waiver of its right to receive, on its Class B units, 110 percent of the distributions paid with respect to our common units. At a special meeting of the holders of our common units, adjourned to May 10, 2007, the proposed amendments to our Partnership Agreement were not approved by the required two-thirds affirmative vote of our outstanding units, excluding the common units and Class B limited partner units held by ONEOK and its affiliates. As a result, effective April 7, 2007, ONEOK, as the sole holder of our Class B limited partner units, became entitled to receive increased quarterly distributions on its Class B units equal to 110 percent of the distributions paid with respect to our common units. On June 21, 2007, ONEOK waived its right to receive the increased quarterly distributions on the Class B units for the period of April 7, 2007, through December 31, 2007, and continuing thereafter until ONEOK gives us no less than 90 days advance notice that it has withdrawn its waiver. ONEOK could withdraw such waiver and begin receiving such increased distributions, effective with respect to any distribution on the Class B units declared or paid on or after 90 days following delivery of the notice. 19 Table of Contents If our unitholders vote to remove ONEOK or its affiliates as our general partner, quarterly distributions and distributions payable to ONEOK upon liquidation of the Class B units would increase. Since the proposed amendments to our Partnership Agreement were not approved by the requisite number of our common unitholders, if our common unitholders vote at any time to remove ONEOK or its affiliates as our general partner, quarterly distributions payable on the Class B limited partner units would increase to 123.5 percent of the distributions payable with respect to the common units, and distributions payable upon liquidation of the Class B limited partner units would increase to 123.5 percent of the distributions payable with respect to the common units. We do not operate all of our assets nor do we directly employ any of the persons responsible for providing us with administrative, operating and management services. This reliance on others to operate our assets and to provide other services could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP to provide us with administrative, operating and management services. We have a limited ability to control our operations and the associated costs of such operations. The success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the provider. ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP may outsource some or all of these services to third parties, and a failure to perform by these third-party providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. Should ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP not perform their respective contractual obligations, we may have to contract elsewhere for these services, which may cost more than we are currently paying. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and negatively affect our business and operating results. Our reliance on ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company, and ONEOK Partners GP and the third-party providers with which they contract, together with our limited ability to control certain costs, could harm our business and results of operations. The Board of Directors of our general partner, our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. ONEOK owns 100 percent of our general partner interest and a 43.7 percent limited partner interest in us. Although ONEOK, through the Board of Directors of our general partner, has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the Board of Directors of ONEOK has a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to ONEOK. One member of the Board of Directors of our general partner is also a member of ONEOK’s Board of Directors. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates and between us and our unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders as long as it does not take action that conflicts with our Partnership Agreement or its limited fiduciary duties. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • our general partner, which is owned by ONEOK, and the Board of Directors of our general partner are allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting their fiduciary duties to our unitholders; • our Partnership Agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of the members of the Board of Directors of our general partner and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • the Board of Directors of our general partner determines the amount and timing of our cash reserves, asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; • the Board of Directors of our general partner approves the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and determines whether they are maintenance capital expenditures or growth capital expenditures, which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; • the Board of Directors of our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions; • the Board of Directors of our general partner and its Audit Committee determine which costs incurred by the Board of Directors, our general partner and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the members of the Board of Directors of our general partner from causing us to pay the Board of Directors, our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units; and 20 Table of Contents • the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of our general partner decide whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our general partner and its affiliates may compete directly with us and have no obligation to present business opportunities to us. ONEOK and its affiliates are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. ONEOK may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. In addition, under our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to ONEOK and its affiliates. As a result, neither ONEOK nor any of its affiliates has any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Our Partnership Agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination (through its Board of Directors) whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of us; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in “good faith,” meaning it believed the decision was in our best interests; • provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decision is in our best interests; • provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Audit Committee and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in “good faith,” and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its affiliates, officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions so long as such person acted in “good faith” and in a manner believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interest of us and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe its conduct was unlawful. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will be bound by the provisions in our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the ability of our general partner from transferring its interest to a third party. The new members or unitholders, as the case may be, of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the directors of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions made by the Board of Directors of our general partner. Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment grade rating by Moody’s of “Baa2” (Stable) and by S&P of “BBB” (Stable). We will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. However, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Specifically, if Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our 21 Table of Contents potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. A downgrade of our credit rating may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. We could be required to offer to repurchase certain of our senior notes due 2010 and 2011 at par value, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if Moody’s or S&P rate those senior notes below investment grade (Baa3 for Moody’s and BBB- for S&P). Further, the indenture governing our senior notes due 2010 and 2011 includes an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more and the indenture governing our senior notes due 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 includes an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more that would be triggered by such an offer to repurchase. Such an event of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding senior notes due 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. We may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to borrow money under our credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repayments and repurchases. We could also face difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of approximately $2.7 billion. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and our other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our notes; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; • diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. We are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness. Our incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above, and could adversely affect our ability to repay our notes and other indebtedness. We and the Intermediate Partnership have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. We and the Intermediate Partnership are holding companies, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. Neither we nor the Intermediate Partnership have significant assets other than the partnership interests and the equity in our subsidiaries and Northern Border Pipeline. As a result, our ability to make quarterly distributions and required payments on our indebtedness depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, credit facilities, applicable state partnership laws, and other laws and regulations. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to make quarterly distributions or required payments on our indebtedness, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such 22 Table of Contents as refinancing the indebtedness or seeking alternative financing sources to fund the quarterly distributions and indebtedness payments. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional units, subject to the limitations imposed by the NYSE. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the distribution paid on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon the sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our Partnership Agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our Partnership Agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot vote on any matter. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Unitholders may also have liability to repay distributions. As a limited partner in a limited partnership organized under Delaware law, unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if they participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. TAX RISKS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, we are only subject to entity level taxation in the state of Texas. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. 23 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we likely would pay state taxes as well. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distributions to our common unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the after-tax return to our common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity level federal taxation. In addition, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we became subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income generated in Texas beginning in 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax was imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7 percent of our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such tax on us by Texas, or any other state, reduces the cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the federal income tax positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may adversely impact the taxable income reported to our unitholders and the income taxes they are required to pay. As a result, any such contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any such contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. A unitholder may be required to pay taxes on a share of our income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. A unitholder will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income, whether or not the unitholder receives cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to the unitholder’s share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from the unitholder’s share of our taxable income. The taxable gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. A unitholder will recognize a gain or loss on the sale of common units equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder’s tax basis in those common units. A unitholder’s amount realized will be measured by the sum of the cash or the fair market value of other property received plus the unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities. Because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, the gain recognized on the sale of common units could result in a tax liability in excess of any cash received from the sale. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to a unitholder for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to a unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to a unitholder. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts, regulated investment companies known as mutual funds, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. withholding taxes. Non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. 24 Table of Contents We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. Unitholders will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Unitholders will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns and foreign tax returns, as applicable. Some of the states in which we do business or own property may require us to, or we may elect to, withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular unitholder’s income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve the non-resident unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our units. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our limited partner units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Our treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we are required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. We do so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of the United States Treasury regulations. An IRS challenge to these conventions could adversely affect the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and 25 Table of Contents could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 