Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, and “Forward-Looking Statements,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. - 4 - - Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL ONEOK Partners, L.P. is a publicly traded Delaware master limited partnership that was formed in 1993. Our common units are listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol “OKS.” We are one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships and a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States. In addition, we own one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. We also own a 50 percent equity interest in a leading transporter of natural gas imported from Canada into the United States. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our operations are divided into four strategic business segments based on similarities in economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, methods of distribution and regulatory environment, as follows: · our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment primarily gathers and processes unprocessed natural gas; · our Natural Gas Pipelines segment primarily owns and operates regulated interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines and natural gas storage facilities; · our Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation segment primarily gathers, treats and fractionates NGLs and stores and markets NGL products; and · our Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines segment primarily owns and operates FERC-regulated interstate natural gas liquids gathering and distribution pipelines. For financial and statistical information regarding our business segments, see below in the “Segment Financial Information” section, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Partnership Structure We are managed under the direction of the Board of Directors of our sole general partner, ONEOK Partners GP, which consists of six members. Three of our Board members qualify as independent under the listing standards of the NYSE and also serve as the Audit Committee of ONEOK Partners GP. ONEOK Partners GP is a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK. ONEOK owns a 47.7 percent aggregate equity interest in us. Business Strategy Our primary business strategy is to deliver consistent growth and sustainable earnings while focusing on safe, reliable, environmentally sound and legally compliant operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the public through the following: · developing and executing internally generated growth projects; · executing strategic acquisitions that utilize our core competencies; and · managing our balance sheet over the long term to maintain our credit ratings at or above their current investment-grade levels. Outlook for 2009 We expect continued deteriorating economic conditions in 2009, with downward pressures, relative to 2008, on commodity prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. We anticipate that lower commodity prices will result in reduced drilling activity and economic conditions will result in reduced petrochemical demand. We also expect continued volatility and disruption in the financial markets, which could result in an increased cost of capital. We expect depressed commodity prices and tighter capital markets to also result in the sale or consolidation of underperforming assets in the industry, which may present opportunities for us. We intend to pursue growth in our natural gas businesses through well-connects and contract renegotiations and through expansions and extensions of our existing systems and plants. For our natural gas liquids businesses, we intend to continue to focus on adding new supply connections, optimizing existing assets, as well as completing our growth projects currently - 5 - - Table of Contents under construction. Capital expenditures in 2009 are expected to be significantly lower than in 2008 when we spent approximately $1.3 billion. We plan to spend approximately $425 million on capital expenditures in 2009, of which approximately $355 million is for growth projects. We also plan to pursue strategic acquisitions related to gathering, processing, fractionating, storing, transporting and marketing natural gas and NGLs. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS IN 2008 Capital Projects - The following projects were placed in-service during 2008: · January - Midwestern Gas Transmission’s eastern extension pipeline; · July - final phase of Fort Union Gas Gathering expansion project; · September - Woodford Shale natural gas liquids pipeline extension; · October - Bushton fractionation expansion; · November - Overland Pass Pipeline from Opal, Wyoming to Conway, Kansas; and · December - partial operations of the Guardian Pipeline extension with interruptible service from Ixonia, Wisconsin, to Green Bay, Wisconsin. Equity Issuance - In March 2008, we completed a public offering of 2.5 million common units at $58.10 per common unit, generating net proceeds of approximately $140.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts but before offering expenses. In addition, we sold 5.4 million common units to ONEOK in a private placement, generating proceeds of approximately $303.2 million. In conjunction with the public offering of common units and the private placement, ONEOK Partners GP contributed $9.4 million in order to maintain its 2 percent general partner interest in us. In April 2008, we sold an additional 128,873 common units at $58.10 per common unit to the underwriters of the public offering upon the partial exercise of their option to purchase additional common units to cover over-allotments. We received net proceeds of approximately $7.2 million from the sale of the common units after deducting underwriting discounts but before offering expenses. In conjunction with the partial exercise by the underwriters, ONEOK Partners GP contributed $0.2 million in order to maintain its 2 percent general partner interest in us. As a result of these transactions, ONEOK now holds a 47.7 percent aggregate equity interest in us. SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION Operating Income - The following table sets forth (i) operating income and (ii) operating income including the impact of equity earnings from investments by segment, as a percentage of our consolidated total, excluding any gain or (loss) on sale of assets, for the periods indicated. Operating Income and Operating Income Equity Earnings from Investments Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Natural Gas Gathering and Processing 38% 42% 46% 38% 40% 41% Natural Gas Pipelines 21% 25% 31% 27% 33% 40% Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation 32% 25% 22% 27% 21% 18% Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines 9% 9% 7% 8% 8% 6% Other and Eliminations * (1%) (6%) * (2%) (5%) Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * Represents a value of less than 1 percent. Customers and Total Assets - See Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of revenues from external customers under “Customers” and disclosure of total assets by segment within the “Operating Segment Information” table. - 6 - - Table of Contents Intersegment Revenues - The following table sets forth the percentage of intersegment revenues to total revenue, by segment, for the periods indicated. Years Ended December 31, Intersegment Revenues 2008 2007 2006 Natural Gas Gathering and Processing 39% 35% 35% Natural Gas Pipelines * * * Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation * * * Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines 60% 83% 100% * Represents a value of less than 1 percent. See Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about intersegment revenues. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Natural Gas Gathering and Processing Business Strategy - We focus on safe, environmentally sound and legally compliant operations for our employees, contractors, customers and the public. We pursue growth through additional well connections, system expansions and strategic acquisitions. We seek to restructure expiring contracts to mitigate commodity price exposure. We also seek to provide reliable, efficient and consistent operations through optimization of our natural gas gathering and processing operations while managing costs. Description of Business - Our operations include gathering of unprocessed natural gas produced from crude oil and natural gas wells. We gather unprocessed natural gas in the Mid-Continent region, which includes the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas. We also gather unprocessed natural gas in two producing basins in the Rocky Mountain region: the Williston Basin, which spans portions of Montana, North Dakota and the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming. Our gathering and processing operations are non-discretionary services required by our customers to move their unprocessed natural gas from the producing regions to end users for consumption. In the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions, unprocessed natural gas is compressed and transported through pipelines to processing facilities where volumes are aggregated, treated and processed to remove water vapor, solids and other contaminants, and to extract NGLs in order to provide marketable natural gas, commonly referred to as residue gas. The residue gas, which consists primarily of methane, is compressed and delivered to natural gas pipelines for transportation to end users. When the NGLs are separated from the unprocessed natural gas at the processing plants, the NGLs are generally in the form of a mixed, unfractionated NGL stream. This unfractionated NGL stream is generally shipped to fractionators where, through the application of heat and pressure, the unfractionated NGL stream is separated into marketable purity products, such as ethane/propane mix, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline (collectively, NGL products). Our natural gas and NGL products are sold to affiliates and a diverse customer base. Our natural gas processing operations utilize straddle and field gas processing plants to extract NGLs from unprocessed natural gas and remove water vapor and other contaminants from the unprocessed natural gas stream. A straddle gas processing plant is situated on a pipeline system and relies on the pipeline’s natural gas throughput volume, which subjects the plant to increased supply risk as it is dependent upon the throughput of a single pipeline rather than several supply sources. Field gas processing plants process natural gas gathered from multiple producing wells. Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment gathers and processes unprocessed natural gas. We generally gather and process gas under the following types of contracts. · Percent-of-Proceeds (POP) - Under a POP contract, we retain a percentage of the NGLs and/or a percentage of the residue gas as payment for gathering, compressing and processing the producer’s unprocessed natural gas. The producer may take its share of the NGLs and residue gas in-kind or receive its share of proceeds from our sale of the commodities. POP contracts expose us to both natural gas and NGL commodity price risk but economically align us with the producer because we both benefit from higher commodity prices. For 2008, this type of contract represented approximately 34 percent of contracted volumes. There are a variety of factors that directly affect our POP margins, including: - the percentages of products retained that represent our equity NGL, condensate and residue gas sales volumes; - transportation and fractionation costs incurred on the NGLs; and - 7 - - Table of Contents - the natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices received for our retained products. · Fee - Under a fee contract, we are paid a fee for the services provided that is based on Btus gathered, compressed and/or processed. The wellhead volume and fees received for the services provided are the main components of the margin for this type of contract. The producer typically takes its NGLs and residue gas in-kind. This type of contract primarily exposes us to volumetric risk with minimal commodity price risk. Our POP and keep-whole contracts also typically include fee provisions. For 2008, this type of contract represented approximately 58 percent of contracted volumes. · Keep-Whole - Under a keep-whole processing contract, we extract NGLs from the unprocessed natural gas and return to the producer volumes of residue gas containing the same amount of Btus as the unprocessed natural gas that was delivered to us. We retain the NGLs as our fee for processing. Accordingly, we must purchase and return to the producer sufficient volumes of residue gas to replace the Btus that were removed as NGLs through the gathering and processing operation, commonly referred to as “shrink.” Under index-based purchase agreements, we purchase unprocessed natural gas at the wellhead to replace the natural gas that we consume in processing, and we typically bear the full cost of the plant fuel and shrink, with the excess residue gas being sold monthly at index-based prices. By using this contract type, the producer is kept whole on a Btu basis. This type of contract exposes us to the keep-whole spread, or gross processing spread, which is the relative difference in the economic value between NGLs and natural gas on a Btu basis. For 2008, this type of contract represented approximately 8 percent of contracted volumes, with approximately 89 percent of that contracted volume containing language that effectively converts these contracts into fee contracts when the gross processing spread is negative. The main factors that affect our keep-whole margins include: - shrink; - plant fuel consumed; - transportation and fractionation costs incurred on the NGLs; - gross processing spread; and - the natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices received for products sold. Revenues of this segment are derived primarily from POP and fee contracts. We use derivative instruments to mitigate our sensitivity to fluctuations in the price of natural gas, condensate and NGLs. Unconsolidated Affiliates - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment has the following unconsolidated affiliates: · 49 percent ownership interest in Bighorn Gas Gathering, which operates a major coalbed methane gathering system serving a broad production area in northeast Wyoming; · 37 percent ownership interest in Fort Union Gas Gathering, which gathers coalbed methane gas produced in the Powder River Basin and delivers natural gas into the interstate pipeline grid; · 35 percent ownership interest in Lost Creek Gathering Company, which gathers natural gas produced from conventional wells in the Wind River Basin of central Wyoming and delivers natural gas into the interstate pipeline grid; and · 10 percent ownership interest in Venice Energy Services Co., LLC, a gas processing complex near Venice, Louisiana. See Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of unconsolidated affiliates. Market Conditions and Seasonality - Supply - Natural gas supply is affected by rig availability, operating capability and producer drilling activity, which is sensitive to commodity prices, exploration success, available capital and regulatory control. Relatively high natural gas and crude oil prices resulted in increased drilling for most of 2008 in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions, which are our primary supply regions. Significant price declines and reduced drilling activity beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 are now creating less favorable near-term supply projections. In the Mid-Continent region, our gathering and processing assets in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas are well established. However, we anticipate continuing volumetric declines in certain fields that supply our gathering and processing operations. In the Williston Basin, we connected more wells in 2008 than in prior years as a result of increased drilling activity. While transportation and refining capacity constraints for crude oil continue to moderately impact natural gas production in the Williston Basin, the recent reduction in commodity prices has decreased drilling activity. Demand - Demand for gathering and processing services is typically aligned with the supply of natural gas, which generally flows from a producing area at a relatively steady but gradually declining pace over time unless new reserves are added. Our - 8 - - Table of Contents plant operations can be adjusted to respond to market conditions, such as demand for ethane. By changing operating parameters at certain plants, we can produce more of the specific commodity that has the most favorable price or price spread. Commodity Prices - Crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile due to market conditions. Storage injection and withdrawal rates, as well as available storage capacity, can also have an impact on commodity prices. We are exposed to commodity price risk, primarily NGLs, as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for our services. To a lesser extent, exposures arise from the relative price differential between NGLs and natural gas, or the gross processing spread, with respect to our keep-whole processing contracts. We are also exposed to the risk of price fluctuations and the cost of intervening transportation at various market locations, and the demand for our products by the petrochemical industry and other consumers. Seasonality - Some of this segment’s products are subject to weather-related seasonal demand. Cold temperatures typically increase demand for natural gas and propane, which are used to heat homes and businesses. Warm temperatures typically drive demand for natural gas used for gas-fired electric generation used to cool residential and commercial properties. Demand for iso-butane and natural gasoline, which are primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, may also be subject to some variability when automotive travel is higher. During periods of peak demand for a certain commodity, prices for that product typically increase, which influences processing decisions. Competition - The gathering and processing business remains relatively fragmented despite significant consolidation in the industry. We compete for natural gas supplies with major integrated exploration and production companies, pipeline companies and their affiliated marketing companies, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, and marketers in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions. The factors that typically affect our ability to compete for natural gas supplies are: · producer drilling activity; · the petrochemical industry’s level of capacity utilization and its specific feedstock requirements; · fees charged under our contracts; · pressures maintained on our gathering systems; · location of our gathering systems relative to our competitors; · location of our gathering systems relative to drilling activity; · efficiency and reliability of our operations; and · delivery capabilities that exist in each system and plant location. We are responding to these industry conditions by making capital investments to improve plant processing flexibility and reduce operating costs, evaluating consolidation opportunities to maximize earnings, selling assets in non-core operating areas and renegotiating unprofitable contracts. The principal goal of the contract renegotiation effort is to eliminate unprofitable contracts and improve margins, primarily during periods when the gross processing spread is negative. Government Regulation - The FERC has traditionally maintained that a processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of our natural gas processing operations or facilities, our natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in removing NGLs and, therefore, we believe, are exempt from FERC jurisdiction. The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC. Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction. The FERC has historically distinguished between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis. We believe our gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the FERC for non-jurisdictional gathering facility status. We can transport residue gas from our plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Oklahoma and Kansas also have statutes regulating, to various degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states. In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency. Additionally, the operations of our assets are regulated by various state and federal government agencies. See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section. Natural Gas Pipelines Business Strategy - We focus on safe, environmentally sound and legally compliant operations for our employees, contractors, customers and the public. We seek to maintain a competitive cost structure and increase throughput and growth - 9 - - Table of Contents of our existing natural gas pipelines and storage assets through extensions and expansions supported by long-term transportation and reservation contracts. Description of Business - Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment primarily owns and operates regulated natural gas transmission pipelines, natural gas storage facilities, and non-processable natural gas gathering facilities. We also provide interstate natural gas transportation and storage service in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Our interstate natural gas pipeline assets transport natural gas through FERC-regulated interstate natural gas pipelines in Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico. Our interstate pipelines include: · Midwestern Gas Transmission, which is a bi-directional system that interconnects with Tennessee Gas Transmission Company near Portland, Tennessee, and with several interstate pipelines near Joliet, Illinois; · Viking Gas Transmission, which transports natural gas from an interconnection with TransCanada near Emerson, Manitoba, to an interconnection with ANR Pipeline Company near Marshfield, Wisconsin; · Guardian Pipeline interconnects with several pipelines in Joliet, Illinois, and with local distribution companies in Wisconsin; and · OkTex Pipeline, which has interconnects in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas. Our intrastate natural gas pipeline assets in Oklahoma have access to the major natural gas producing areas and transport natural gas throughout the state. We also have access to the major natural gas producing area in south central Kansas. In Texas, our intrastate natural gas pipelines are connected to the major natural gas producing areas in the Texas panhandle and the Permian Basin and transport natural gas to the Waha Hub, where other pipelines may be accessed for transportation east to the Houston Ship Channel market, north into the Mid-Continent market and west to the California market. We own storage capacity in underground natural gas storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our transportation contracts for our regulated natural gas activities are based upon rates stated in our tariffs. Tariffs specify the maximum rates customers can be charged, which can be discounted to meet competition if necessary, and the general terms and conditions for pipeline transportation service, which are established at FERC or appropriate state jurisdictional agency proceedings known as rate cases. In Texas and Kansas, natural gas storage service is a fee business that may be regulated by the state in which the facility operates and by the FERC for certain types of services. In Oklahoma, natural gas gathering and natural gas storage operations are not subject to rate regulation and have market-based rate authority from the FERC for certain types of services. Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment’s revenues are typically derived from fee services from the following types of contracts. · Firm Service - Customers can reserve a fixed quantity of pipeline or storage capacity for the term of their contract. Under this type of contract, the customer pays a fixed fee for a specified quantity regardless of their actual usage. The customer then typically pays incremental fees, known as commodity charges, that are based upon the actual volume of natural gas they transport or store, and/or we may retain a specified volume of natural gas in-kind for fuel. Under the firm-service contract, the customer is generally guaranteed access to the capacity they reserve. · Interruptible Service - Customers with interruptible service transportation and storage agreements may utilize available capacity after firm-service requests are satisfied or on an as-available basis. Interruptible service customers are typically assessed fees, such as a commodity charge, based on their actual usage, and/or we may retain a specified volume of natural gas in-kind for fuel. Under the interruptible service contract, the customer is not guaranteed use of our pipelines and storage facilities unless excess capacity is available. Unconsolidated Affiliates - Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment has the following unconsolidated affiliates: · 50 percent interest in Northern Border Pipeline, which transports natural gas from the Montana-Saskatchewan border near Port Morgan, Montana, to a terminus near North Hayden, Indiana; and · 48 percent ownership interest in Sycamore Gas System, which is a gathering system with compression located in south central Oklahoma. See Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of unconsolidated affiliates. Market Conditions and Seasonality - Supply - The supply of natural gas for Viking Gas Transmission and Northern Border Pipeline originates in Canada. Significant factors that can impact the supply of Canadian natural gas transported by our pipelines are the Canadian natural gas available for export, Canadian storage capacity and demand for Canadian natural gas in other U.S. consumer markets. Guardian Pipeline and Midwestern Gas Transmission access supply from the major - 10 - - Table of Contents producing regions of the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Canada and Gulf Coast. The supply of natural gas to our Mid-Continent pipelines and storage assets currently depends on the pace of natural gas drilling activity by producers and the decline rate of existing production in the major natural gas production areas in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions, including the Anadarko Basin, Hugoton Basin, Central Kansas Uplift Basin, Permian Basin, Williston Basin and Powder River Basin. United States natural gas drilling rig counts increased in 2008, compared with 2007, but rig counts began to decline towards the end of 2008 and continuing into 2009. Demand - Demand for pipeline transportation service and natural gas storage is directly related to demand for natural gas in the markets that the natural gas pipelines and storage facilities serve, and is affected by weather, the economy, and natural gas and NGL price volatility. The effect of weather on our natural gas pipelines operations is discussed below under “Seasonality.” The strength of the economy directly impacts manufacturing and industrial companies that rely on natural gas. Commodity price volatility can influence producers’ decisions related to the production of natural gas, the level of NGLs processed from natural gas and natural gas storage injection and withdrawal activity. Commodity Prices - We are exposed to market risk when existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation with customers that have competitive alternatives and analyze the market price spread or basis differential between receipt and delivery points along the pipeline to determine their expected gross margin. The anticipated margin and its variability are important determinants of the transportation rate customers are willing to pay. Natural gas storage revenue is impacted by the differential between forward pricing of natural gas physical contracts and the price of natural gas on the spot market. Our fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind are also impacted by changes in the price of natural gas. Seasonality - Demand for natural gas is seasonal. Weather conditions throughout the United States can significantly impact regional natural gas supply and demand. High temperatures can increase demand for gas-fired electric generation to cool residential and commercial properties. Cold temperatures can lead to greater demand for our transportation services due to increased demand for natural gas to heat residential and commercial properties. Low precipitation levels can impact the demand for natural gas that is used to fuel irrigation activity in the Mid-Continent region. To the extent that pipeline capacity is contracted under firm-service transportation agreements, revenue, which is generated primarily from demand charges, is not significantly impacted by seasonal throughput variations. However, when transportation agreements expire, seasonal demand can impact negotiations of firm-service transportation capacity. Natural gas storage is necessary to balance the relatively steady natural gas supply with the seasonal demand of residential, commercial and electric power generation users. The majority of our storage capacity is contracted under term agreements. A small portion of our storage capacity is retained for operational purposes and seasonal market activity. Competition - Our natural gas pipelines compete directly with other intrastate and interstate pipeline companies and other storage facilities for natural gas. Our natural gas assets primarily serve local distribution companies, large industrial companies, municipalities, irrigation customers, power generation facilities and marketing companies. Competition among pipelines and natural gas storage facilities is based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and forward natural gas prices, and proximity to natural gas supply areas and markets. Competition for natural gas transportation services continues to increase as the FERC and state regulatory bodies continue to encourage more competition in the natural gas markets. We believe that we compete effectively with our pipelines and storage assets due to their strategic locations connecting supply areas to market centers and other pipelines. Government Regulation - Our interstate natural gas pipelines are regulated under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act, which give the FERC jurisdiction to regulate virtually all aspects of this business segment, such as transportation of natural gas, rates and charges for services, construction of new facilities, depreciation and amortization policies, acquisition and disposition of facilities, and initiation and discontinuation of services. Likewise, our intrastate natural gas pipelines in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are regulated by the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively. While we have flexibility in establishing natural gas transportation rates with customers, there is a maximum rate that we can charge our customers in Oklahoma and Kansas. In Kansas and Texas, natural gas storage may be regulated by the state and by the FERC for certain types of services. In Oklahoma, natural gas gathering and storage are not subject to rate regulation and have market-based rate authority for certain types of services. Additionally, the operations of our assets are regulated by various state and federal government agencies. See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section. - 11 - - Table of Contents Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation Business Strategy - We focus on safe, environmentally sound and legally compliant operations for our employees, contractors, customers and the public. We seek to maximize our value by increasing facility utilization and efficiently managing the operating costs of our natural gas liquids assets, which consist of facilities that gather, fractionate and treat NGLs and store NGL products in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions. Description of Business - Our natural gas liquids gathering and fractionation assets consist of facilities that gather, fractionate and treat NGLs and store NGL products primarily in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, as well as store and fractionate NGLs and NGL products in Mont Belvieu, Texas. Most of the pipeline-connected natural gas processing plants in Oklahoma, Kansas and the Texas panhandle, which extract NGLs from unprocessed natural gas, are connected to our gathering systems. Most natural gas produced at the wellhead contains a mixture of NGL components such as ethane, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline. Natural gas processing plants remove the NGLs from the natural gas stream to realize the higher economic value of the NGLs and to meet natural gas pipeline quality specifications, which limit NGLs in the natural gas stream due to liquid and Btu content. The NGLs that are separated from the natural gas stream at the natural gas processing plants remain in a mixed, unfractionated form until they are gathered, primarily by pipeline, and delivered to fractionators. Our natural gas liquids gathering and fractionation operations are non-discretionary services required by our customers to convert their mixed, unfractionated NGLs into marketable purity products. A fractionator, through the application of heat and pressure, separates the unfractionated NGL stream into marketable purity products, such as ethane, ethane/propane mix, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline (collectively, NGL products). These NGL products are then stored or distributed to our customers, such as petrochemical manufacturers, heating fuel users, refineries and propane distributors. Our fractionation and storage facilities are connected to the key natural gas liquids market centers in Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas, by FERC-regulated interstate natural gas liquids pipelines, which are part of our Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines segment. We also purchase NGLs and condensate from third parties as well as from our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment. Revenues for our Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation segment are primarily derived from exchange services, optimization, isomerization and storage. · Our exchange services business collects fees to gather, fractionate and treat unfractionated NGLs, thereby converting them into NGL products that are stored and shipped to a market center or customer-designated location. · Our optimization business utilizes our assets, contract portfolio and market knowledge to capture locational and seasonal price differentials. We move NGL products between Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas, in order to capture the locational price differentials between the two market centers. Our NGL storage facilities are also utilized to capture seasonal price variances. · Our isomerization business captures the price differential when normal butane is converted into the more valuable iso-butane at an isomerization unit in Conway, Kansas. Iso-butane is used in the refining industry to increase the octane of motor gasoline. · Our storage business collects fees to store NGLs at our Mid-Continent and Mont Belvieu facilities. Market Conditions and Seasonality - Supply - Supply for our Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation segment depends on the pace of crude oil and natural gas drilling activity by producers, the decline rate of existing production, and the liquid content of the natural gas that is produced and processed. Our Mont Belvieu fractionation operation receives NGLs from a variety of processors and pipelines located in the Gulf Coast, west and central Texas, and Rocky Mountain regions. Our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines are also affected by operational or market-driven changes that impact the output of natural gas processing plants to which they are connected. The differential between the composite price of NGL products and the price of natural gas, particularly the differential between the price of ethane and the price of natural gas, may influence processing plant NGL output. Historically, the forward price of ethane, compared with the forward price of natural gas, provides minimal or no processing spread. However, when the physical transactions occur, the price of ethane to natural gas has generally provided a positive processing spread. For the majority of 2008, ethane prices remained above natural gas prices on a relative basis, which resulted in ethane recovery from processing plants that deliver NGLs to our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines. Similar to the pricing environments we experienced in September and December of 2008, we expect ethane prices in 2009, at times, to be below natural gas prices, with some processing plants connected to our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines reducing ethane production. - 12 - - Table of Contents Demand - Demand for NGLs and the ability of natural gas processors to successfully and economically sustain their operations impacts the volume of unfractionated NGLs produced by natural gas processing plants, thereby affecting the demand for NGL gathering and fractionation services. Natural gas and propane are subject to weather-related seasonal demand. Other NGL products are affected by economic conditions and the demand associated with the various industries that utilize the commodity, such as butanes and natural gasoline, which are used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel. Ethane/propane mix is used by the petrochemical industry to produce chemical products, such as plastic, rubber and synthetic fiber. Commodity Prices - In recent years, crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile due to market conditions. We are exposed to market risk associated with adverse changes in the price of NGLs, the basis differential between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, and the relative price differential between natural gas, NGLs and individual NGL products, which impact our NGL purchases, sales, exchange and storage revenue. When natural gas prices are higher relative to NGL prices, NGL production may decline, which could negatively impact our exchange services revenue. When the basis differential between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions is narrow, optimization opportunity and margins may decline. NGL storage revenue may be impacted by price volatility and forward pricing of NGL physical contracts versus the price of NGLs on the spot market. Seasonality - Some NGL products produced by our natural gas liquids facilities are subject to weather-related seasonal demand, such as propane, which is primarily used to heat residential properties during the winter heating season. Demand for normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, which are primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, may also be subject to some variability when automotive travel is higher. Competition - Our gathering and fractionation business competes with other fractionators, storage providers and gatherers for NGL supplies in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions. The factors that typically affect our ability to compete for NGL supplies are: · producer drilling activity; · the petrochemical industry’s level of capacity utilization and feedstock requirements; · fees charged under our contracts; · pressures maintained on our gathering systems; · location of our gathering systems relative to our competitors; · location of our gathering systems relative to drilling activity; · efficiency and reliability of our operations; and · delivery capabilities that exist in each system, plant and storage location. We are responding to these industry conditions by making capital investments to access new supplies, increase gathering and fractionation capacity, increase storage capabilities and reduce operating costs so that we may effectively compete. Government Regulation - Revenues generated by our pipelines in both Oklahoma and Kansas are not regulated by the FERC or those states’ respective corporation commissions. However, the operations of our assets are regulated by various state and federal government agencies. See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section. Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines Business Strategy - We focus on safe, environmentally sound and legally compliant operations for our employees, contractors, customers and the public. We seek to increase throughput and to continue to provide cost-effective transportation of NGLs between the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions and the Midwest markets near Chicago, Illinois. We pursue growth of our interstate natural gas liquids pipelines by making capital investments to expand our access to new supplies and increase our pipeline capacity. Description of Business - Our Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines segment primarily owns and operates FERC-regulated natural gas liquids gathering and distribution pipelines and associated above- and below-ground storage facilities. Our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines deliver unfractionated NGLs gathered in Oklahoma, Kansas, the Texas panhandle and the Rocky Mountain region to our Natural Gas Liquids Gathering and Fractionation segment’s Mid-Continent fractionation facilities in Oklahoma and Kansas. Our natural gas liquids distribution pipelines deliver unfractionated NGLs and NGL products to the natural gas liquids market hubs in Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas. Through our acquisition of the natural gas liquids assets from Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (Kinder Morgan), we acquired terminal and storage facilities, as well as natural gas liquids and refined petroleum products pipelines that connect our Mid-Continent assets with Midwest markets, including Chicago, Illinois. We operate FERC-regulated natural gas liquids gathering and distribution pipelines in - 13 - - Table of Contents Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Texas, Wyoming and Colorado. We have product terminal and storage facilities in Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois. Revenues for this segment are primarily derived from transporting product under our FERC-regulated tariffs. Tariffs specify the rates we can charge our customers and the general terms and conditions for NGL transportation service on our pipelines. Our tariffs include specifications regarding the receipt and delivery of NGLs at points along the pipeline systems. We generally charge tariff rates under a FERC-approved indexing methodology, which allows charging rates up to a prescribed ceiling that changes annually based on the year-to-year change in the Producer Price Index for finished goods. The FERC also permits interstate natural gas liquids pipelines to support rates by using a cost-of-service methodology, competitive market price or an agreement with a pipeline’s non-affiliated shipper. Our storage services are primarily offered through FERC-regulated tariffs and are generally used for operational purposes and to store our customers’ NGL products. Under some of our FERC-regulated tariffs, customers are allotted earned storage capacity based upon their utilization of transport services. When a customer exceeds its earned storage capacity, we charge the customer an excess storage fee. In some of our product storage agreements, we charge some customers storage lease fees to reserve a specific storage capacity, and we charge some customers based on the quantity of capacity utilized. Unconsolidated Affiliates - Our Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines segment has the following unconsolidated affiliates: · 50 percent ownership interest in Chisholm Pipeline Company, which operates an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline system extending approximately 184 miles from origin points in Oklahoma and Kansas; and · 50 percent ownership interest in Heartland, which operates a terminal and pipeline system that transports refined petroleum products in Kansas, Nebraska and Iowa. See Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of unconsolidated affiliates. Market Conditions and Seasonality - Supply - The supply for our Natural Gas Liquids Pipelines segment depends on the pace of crude oil and natural gas drilling activity by producers, the decline rate of existing production and the liquid content of the natural gas that is produced and processed. The unfractionated NGLs that we transport and store are primarily gathered from natural gas processing plants in Oklahoma, Kansas, the Texas panhandle and the Rocky Mountain region. The supply of NGLs gathered are affected by operational or market-driven changes that impact the NGL output of natural gas processing plants to which we are connected. The differential between the composite price of NGL products and the price of natural gas, particularly the differential between the price of ethane and the price of natural gas, may influence processing plant output. Historically, the forward price of ethane, compared with the forward price of natural gas, provides minimal or no processing spread. However, as the prices settle, the price of ethane to natural gas has generally provided a positive processing spread. For the majority of 2008, ethane prices remained above natural gas prices on a relative basis, which resulted in ethane recovery from processing plants that deliver NGLs to our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines. Similar to the pricing environments we experienced in September and December of 2008, we expect ethane prices in 2009, at times, to be below natural gas prices, with some processing plants connected to our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines reducing ethane production. Demand - Demand for NGLs and the ability of natural gas processors to successfully and economically sustain their operations impacts the volume of unfractionated NGLs produced by natural gas processing plants, which affects the demand for our NGL gathering and distribution services. Propane is subject to weather-related seasonal demand. Other products are affected by economic conditions and the demand associated with the various industries that utilize the commodity, such as butanes and natural gasoline, which are used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel. Ethane/propane mix is used by the petrochemical industry to produce chemical products, such as plastic, rubber and synthetic fiber. Commodity Prices - In recent years, crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile due to market conditions. We are exposed to market risk associated with adverse changes in the price of NGLs, the basis differential between the Mid-Continent, Chicago, Illinois, and Gulf Coast regions, and the relative price differential between natural gas, unfractionated NGLs and individual NGL products, which impact the distribution of NGL products. When natural gas prices are higher relative to NGL prices, NGL production may decline, which could negatively impact the revenues of our gathering and distribution activities. When the basis differential between the Mid-Continent, Chicago, Illinois, and Gulf Coast regions is narrow, NGL shipments may decline, resulting in a reduction of transportation revenues. Seasonality - Some NGLs gathered and distributed by our natural gas liquids pipeline facilities are subject to weather-related seasonal demand, such as propane, which is primarily used to heat residential properties during the winter heating season and for agricultural purposes such as grain drying in the fall. Demand for normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, which - 14 - - Table of Contents are primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, may also be subject to some variability when automotive travel is higher. Competition - Our natural gas liquids pipelines compete directly with other intrastate and interstate pipeline companies and other storage facilities for NGLs. Competition among pipeline companies and NGL storage facilities is based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and forward NGL prices and proximity to natural gas liquids supply areas and markets. We believe that we compete effectively with our pipelines and storage assets due to their strategic locations connecting supply areas to market centers. Government Regulation - Our interstate natural gas liquids pipelines are regulated by the FERC, which regulates virtually all aspects of this business segment, such as transportation of NGLs and refined products, fees for services, depreciation and amortization policies, and initiation and discontinuation of services. The KCC regulates intrastate transportation of NGLs and refined products in Kansas. Additionally, the operations of our assets are regulated by various state and federal government agencies. See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section. Other Description of Business - Our Other segment includes Black Mesa Pipeline, a 273-mile pipeline designed to transport crushed coal suspended in water that originates at a coal mine in Kayenta, Arizona, and terminates at the Mohave Generating Station (Mohave) in Laughlin, Nevada. Operations for Mohave ceased on December 31, 2005. Also on December 31, 2005, Black Mesa Pipeline’s transportation contract with the coal supplier of Mohave expired, and our coal slurry pipeline operations were shut down. In the second quarter of 2008, we started the decommissioning of Black Mesa Pipeline. The duration of the decommissioning process will depend on, among other factors, the arrangements we make with land owners as to the transfer, abandonment or removal of property on their lands. We do not expect the decommissioning to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY MATTERS Information about our environmental matters is included in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Pipeline Safety - We are subject to United States Department of Transportation regulations, including integrity management regulations. The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act requires pipeline companies to perform integrity assessments on pipeline segments that pass through densely populated areas or near specifically designated high consequence areas. To our knowledge, we are in compliance with all material requirements associated with the various pipeline safety regulations. Air and Water Emissions - The federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into the air and water in the United States. Under the Clean Air Act, a federally enforceable operating permit is required for sources of significant air emissions. We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution-control equipment in connection with obtaining or maintaining permits and approvals for sources of air emissions. The Clean Water Act imposes substantial potential liability for the removal of pollutants discharged to waters of the United States and remediation of waters affected by such discharge. To our knowledge, we are in compliance with all material requirements associated with the various regulations. The United States Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. In addition, state and regional initiatives to regulate greenhouse gas emissions are underway. We are monitoring federal and state legislation to assess the potential impact on our operations. Our most recent calculation of direct greenhouse gas emissions is estimated to be less than 6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents on an annual basis. We will continue efforts to quantify our direct greenhouse gas emissions and will report such emissions as required by any mandatory reporting rule, including the rules anticipated to be issued by the EPA in mid-2009. Superfund - The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on certain classes of persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of a facility where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the facility. Under CERCLA, these persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies. - 15 - - Table of Contents Chemical Site Security - The United States Department of Homeland Security (Homeland Security) released an interim rule in April 2007 that requires companies to provide reports on sites where certain chemicals, including many hydrocarbon products, are stored. We completed the Homeland Security assessments, and our facilities were subsequently assigned one of four risked-based tiers ranging from high (Tier 1) to low (Tier 4) risk, or not tiered at all due to low risk. A majority of our facilities were not tiered. We are currently waiting for Homeland Security’s analysis to determine if any of the tiered facilities will require Site Security Plans and possible physical security enhancements. Climate Change - Our environmental and climate change strategy focuses on taking steps to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment. These strategies include: (i) developing and maintaining an accurate greenhouse gas emissions inventory, according to rules anticipated to be issued by the EPA in mid-2009, (ii) improving the efficiency of our various pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and natural gas liquids fractionation facilities, (iii) following developing technologies for emissions control, (iv) following developing technologies to capture carbon dioxide to keep it from reaching the atmosphere, and (v) analyzing options for future energy investment. We participate in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program to voluntarily reduce methane emissions. We were honored in 2008 as the “Natural Gas STAR Gathering and Processing Partner of the Year” for our efforts to positively address environmental issues through voluntary implementation of emission-reduction opportunities. In addition, we continue to focus on maintaining low rates of lost-and-unaccounted-for methane gas through expanded implementation of best practices to limit the release of methane gas during pipeline and facility maintenance and operations. Our most recent calculation of our annual lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas, for all of our business operations, is less than 1 percent of total throughput. EMPLOYEES We do not directly employ any of the persons responsible for managing, operating or providing us with services related to our day-to-day business affairs. We have a service agreement with ONEOK, ONEOK Partners GP and NBP Services (the Services Agreement) under which our operations and the operations of ONEOK and its affiliates can combine or share certain common services in order to operate more efficiently and cost effectively. Under the Services Agreement, ONEOK provides us an equivalent type and amount of services that it provides to its other affiliates, including those services required to be provided pursuant to our Partnership Agreement. ONEOK Partners GP operates our interstate natural gas pipeline assets according to each pipeline’s operating agreement. ONEOK Partners GP may purchase services from ONEOK and its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Services Agreement. As of January 31, 2009, we utilized the services of 1,232 people in addition to the other resources provided by ONEOK and its affiliates. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available on our Web site copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and reports of holdings of our securities filed by our officers and directors under Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct, Governance Guidelines, Partnership Agreement and the written charter of our Audit Committee are also available on our Web site, and we will make available, free of charge, copies of these documents upon request. However, our Web site and any contents thereof are not incorporated by reference into this document. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Forward-Looking Statements,” which are included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity prices and reduced the credit capacity for companies. Our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have - 16 - - Table of Contents regular access to the capital and credit markets. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted, making growth through acquisitions and development projects difficult or impractical to pursue until such time as markets stabilize. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. Our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets. As a result, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain. Some lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact of the tightening of the credit markets or a further tightening may have a material adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to obtain credit necessary to expand facilities or finance the acquisition of assets on favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or financing with increasingly restrictive covenants. The volatility of natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices could adversely affect our cash flow. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities received as payment for our natural gas gathering and processing services, for transportation and storage of natural gas and NGLs, and for the fractionation of NGLs. As a result, we are sensitive to commodity price fluctuations. Commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. Recent significant and steep commodity price declines and compressions in commodity price differentials have had and could continue to have material negative impacts on our financial results. The prices we receive for our commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including the following: · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; · market uncertainty; · the availability and cost of transportation capacity; · the level of consumer product demand; · geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · speculation in the commodity futures markets; · the price of natural gas, crude oil, NGL and liquefied natural gas imports; and · the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. As commodity prices decline, we are paid less for our commodities, thereby reducing our cash flow. In addition, production and related volumes could also decline. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to allow us to pay quarterly distributions at current levels following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our affiliates. The amount of cash we can distribute to our unitholders principally depends upon the cash we generate from our operations. Because the cash we generate from operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, we may not be able to maintain future quarterly distributions at the current level. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected - 17 - - Table of Contents by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, adversely affecting our results of operations. Our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs and crude oil prices. Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. Our primary exposures arise from commodity prices with respect to our processing agreements, the differentials between NGL and natural gas prices with respect to our natural gas and NGL transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements, the differential between the individual NGL products and the differentials in natural gas and NGLs in storage utilized by our operations. To manage the risk from market fluctuations in natural gas, NGL and condensate prices, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options. However, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk. Accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. Our use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. We utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. Hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we have contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. Hedging arrangements that are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas and NGLs exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. Our inability to execute growth and development projects and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to our unitholders. Our primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders and to increase our quarterly cash distributions over time. Our ability to maintain and grow our distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of our existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. Accordingly, if we are unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or NGL supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to our existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. The construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. Construction projects in our industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, impact our costs and schedule. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. Additionally, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. We may have only limited natural gas or NGL supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Additionally, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or NGLs to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: · mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies; - 18 - - Table of Contents · an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; · decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; · a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; · the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; · an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; · the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; · unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; · increased regulatory burdens; · customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and · increased regulatory requirements. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts, or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities, and processing and fractionation plants. Operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities) and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our control. It is also possible that our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operation of our pipeline caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by us and increase expenses, thereby impairing our ability to meet our obligations. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and we are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. Additionally, in accordance with typical industry practice, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to such systems. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the hurricanes in 2005 and 2008 have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. Consequently, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. If the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Texas and Gulf Coast regions substantially declines near our assets, our volumes and revenues could decline. Our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Texas, and Gulf Coast regions. Drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, - 19 - - Table of Contents including: · demand for natural gas and refinery-grade crude oil; · producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; · natural gas field characteristics and production performance; · surface access and infrastructure issues; and · capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and our facilities. In addition, drilling and production may be impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. If the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, our volumes and revenue could be reduced. If production from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin is greater in market areas other than the Midwestern United States, demand for our interstate transportation services could significantly decrease. We depend on natural gas supply from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin because our interstate pipelines primarily transport Canadian natural gas from the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin to the Midwestern U.S. market area. If demand for natural gas increases in Canada or other markets not served by our pipelines and production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on our interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. Pursuant to a United States Department of Transportation rule, pipeline operators are required to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The rule also requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. The results of these testing programs could cause us to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. Our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties. The natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the FERC and United States Congress, especially in light of previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce. In response to this issue, the United States Congress, in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. The FERC then adopted the Market Manipulation Rules to implement the authority granted under EPACT. These rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. EPACT also gave the FERC increased penalty authority for violations. Our regulated pipelines’ transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. Our regulated pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of our pipeline business, including our transportation rates. Under the Natural Gas Act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the Interstate Commerce Act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Action by the FERC or a state regulatory agency could adversely affect our pipeline business’ ability to establish or charge rates that would cover future increases in their costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. We cannot assure unitholders that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. - 20 - - Table of Contents Our regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. Accounting policies for FERC-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under GAAP for nonregulated entities. We consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. If we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. The risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. Examples of these laws include: · the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; · the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewaters from our facilities to state and federal waters; · the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and · the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. There is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport and process, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. Additional information is included under Item 1, Business under “Environmental and Safety Matters” and in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might also adversely affect our products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect our profitability. In the competition for customers, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation and storage capacity on our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines and in our storage assets. Our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines and storage assets compete with other pipelines and storage facilities for natural gas and NGL supplies delivered to the markets we serve. As a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our pipelines and in our storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments may subject our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 21 - - Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers or counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties. Our customers or counterparties may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay us for our services. We assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and obtain security as we deem appropriate. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if any of our customers or counterparties file for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenue but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. This shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Global warming is a significant concern for the energy industry. Various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the United States Supreme Court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the EPA. In addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. We believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. However, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. Several bills have been introduced in the United States Congress that would compel carbon dioxide emission reductions. Previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called “caps”) together with systems of permitted emissions allowances. This type of system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. Emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. In addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. These regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. Future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate and could affect future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. Although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. - 22 - - Table of Contents We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Weather conditions outside of our service territory could also have an impact on our revenues. Severe weather impacts our service territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change, with which compliance could be difficult and costly. Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change create financial risk. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the emission of greenhouse gases. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gases and federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of the United States Congress. Our pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and natural gas liquids fractionation facilities will potentially be subject to regulation under climate change policies introduced at either the state or federal level within the next few years. We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN US ONEOK selling substantial amounts of common units could reduce the market price of our common units. ONEOK and its affiliates own all of the Class B units, 5,900,000 common units and the entire 2 percent general partner interest in us, which together constitutes a 47.7 percent ownership interest in us. The Class B units are eligible to convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at ONEOK’s option. ONEOK may, from time to time, sell all or a portion of its common units. Sales of substantial amounts of its common units, or the anticipation of such sales, could lower the market price of our common units and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. ONEOK could withdraw the waiver of its right to receive, on its Class B units, 110 percent of the distributions paid with respect to our common units. At a special meeting of the holders of our common units, adjourned to May 10, 2007, the proposed amendments to our Partnership Agreement were not approved by the required two-thirds affirmative vote of our outstanding units, excluding the common units and Class B limited partner units held by ONEOK and its affiliates. As a result, effective April 7, 2007, ONEOK, as the sole holder of our Class B limited partner units, became entitled to receive increased quarterly distributions on its Class B units equal to 110 percent of the distributions paid with respect to our common units. On June 21, 2007, ONEOK waived its right to receive the increased quarterly distributions on the Class B units for the period of April 7, 2007, through December 31, 2007, and continuing thereafter until ONEOK gives us no less than 90 days advance notice that it has withdrawn its waiver. ONEOK could withdraw such waiver and begin receiving such increased distributions, effective with respect to any distribution on the Class B units declared or paid on or after 90 days following delivery of the notice. If our unitholders vote to remove ONEOK or its affiliates as our general partner, quarterly distributions and distributions payable to ONEOK upon liquidation of the Class B units would increase. Since the proposed amendments to our Partnership Agreement were not approved by the requisite number of our common unitholders, if our common unitholders vote at any time to remove ONEOK or its affiliates as our general partner, quarterly - 23 - - Table of Contents distributions payable on the Class B limited partner units would increase to 123.5 percent of the distributions payable with respect to the common units, and distributions payable upon liquidation of the Class B limited partner units would increase to 123.5 percent of the distributions payable with respect to the common units. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner’s directors, which could lower the trading price of our common units. In addition, even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot easily remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board of Directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen by the owners of the general partner and not by the unitholders. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, it may be difficult to remove ONEOK Partners GP or its officers or directors. ONEOK Partners GP may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3 percent of our outstanding units voting together as a single class (excluding units held by ONEOK Partners GP and its affiliates). As a result of this provision, the trading price of our common units may be lower than other forms of equity ownership because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. We do not operate all of our assets nor do we directly employ any of the persons responsible for providing us with administrative, operating and management services. This reliance on others to operate our assets and to provide other services could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP to provide us with administrative, operating and management services. We have a limited ability to control our operations and the associated costs of such operations. The success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the provider. ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP may outsource some or all of these services to third parties, and a failure to perform by these third-party providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. Should ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company and ONEOK Partners GP not perform their respective contractual obligations, we may have to contract elsewhere for these services, which may cost more than we are currently paying. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and negatively affect our business and operating results. Our reliance on ONEOK, ONEOK Services Company, ONEOK Partners GP and third-party providers with which they contract, together with our limited ability to control certain costs, could harm our business and results of operations. Our Partnership Agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination (through its Board of Directors) whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of us; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in “good faith,” meaning it believed the decision was in our best interests; · provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decision is in, or not inconsistent with, our best interests; · provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Audit Committee and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in “good faith,” and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and - 24 - - Table of Contents · provides that our general partner and its affiliates, officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions so long as such person acted in “good faith” and in a manner believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interest of us and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe its conduct was unlawful. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will be bound by the provisions in our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above. The Board of Directors of our general partner, our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. ONEOK owns 100 percent of our general partner interest and a 47.7 percent aggregate equity interest in us. Our Partnership Agreement limits any fiduciary duties owed by our general partner and ONEOK to those duties that are specifically stated in our Partnership Agreement. Although ONEOK, through the Board of Directors of our general partner, has an obligation to manage us in a manner that is in, or not inconsistent with, our best interests, the Board of Directors of ONEOK has a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to ONEOK. One management member of the Board of Directors of our general partner is also the only management member of ONEOK’s Board of Directors. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates and between us and our unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may determine that the transaction is “fair and reasonable” to us, without the agreement of any other party, including the Audit Committee. In that regard, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders, as long as it does not take action that conflicts with our Partnership Agreement. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · our general partner, which is owned by ONEOK, and the Board of Directors of our general partner are allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting their fiduciary duties to our unitholders; · our Partnership Agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of the members of the Board of Directors of our general partner and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; · the Board of Directors of our general partner determines the amount and timing of our cash reserves, asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; · the Board of Directors of our general partner approves the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and determines whether they are maintenance capital expenditures or growth capital expenditures, which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; · the Board of Directors of our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions; · the Board of Directors of our general partner and its Audit Committee determine which costs incurred by the Board of Directors, our general partner and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the members of the Board of Directors of our general partner from causing us to pay the Board of Directors, our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units, which right may be assigned or transferred to, among others, us or affiliates of the general partner, if the general partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units; and · the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of our general partner decide whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our general partner and its affiliates may compete directly with us and have no obligation to present business opportunities to us. ONEOK and its affiliates are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. ONEOK may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. In addition, under our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to ONEOK and its affiliates. As a result, neither ONEOK nor any of its affiliates has any obligation to present business opportunities to us. - 25 - - Table of Contents The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer all, or any part of, its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of the unitholders. The members, shareholders or unitholders, as the case may be, of our new general partner may then be in a position to replace all or a portion of the directors of our general partner with their own choices and to possibly control the decisions made by the Board of Directors of our general partner. Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by Moody’s of “Baa2” (Stable) and by S&P of “BBB” (Stable). We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Specifically, if Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. If Moody's or S&P were to downgrade our long-term ratings below investment grade, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to offer to repurchase certain of our senior notes. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our Partnership Agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt- service requirements, all of which are significant. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to issue more equity to recapitalize. A downgrade of our credit rating may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. We could be required to offer to repurchase certain of our senior notes due 2010 and 2011 at par value, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if Moody’s or S&P rate those senior notes below investment grade (Baa3 for Moody’s and BBB- for S&P). Further, the indenture governing our senior notes due 2010 and 2011 includes an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more and the indenture governing our senior notes due 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 includes an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more that would be triggered by such an offer to repurchase. Such an event of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding senior notes due 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. We may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to borrow money under our credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repayments and repurchases. We could also face difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our other obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $3.5 billion. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and our other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our notes; · impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; - 26 - - Table of Contents · diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners, and general purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. We are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. Our incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could adversely affect our ability to repay our notes and other indebtedness. Our debt agreements contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, or grant liens or make negative pledges. Certain of these agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limits the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. Future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. If we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. We and the Intermediate Partnership have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. We and the Intermediate Partnership are holding companies, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. Neither we nor the Intermediate Partnership have significant assets other than the partnership interests and the equity in our subsidiaries and other investments. As a result, our ability to make quarterly distributions and required payments on our indebtedness depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, credit facilities, applicable state partnership laws, and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to make quarterly distributions or required payments on our indebtedness, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing the indebtedness or seeking alternative financing sources to fund the quarterly distributions and indebtedness payments. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional units,. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the distribution paid on each unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the issuance of equity securities ranking senior to the common units requires approval of a majority of the outstanding common units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon the sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call - 27 - - Table of Contents right. There is no restriction in our Partnership Agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our Partnership Agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or entity that owns 20 percent or more of our common units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot vote on any matter. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Unitholders may also have liability to repay distributions. As a limited partner in a limited partnership organized under Delaware law, unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if they participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. TAX RISKS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, other than our corporate subsidiaries, we are only subject to entity-level taxation in the state of Texas. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we likely would pay state taxes as well. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distributions to our common unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the after-tax return to our common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, beginning in 2008, we were required to pay the revised Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7 percent of our gross revenue that is apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such tax on us by Texas, or any other state, reduces the cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The tax treatment of our structure could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The federal income tax treatment of us and common unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of federal income tax law. The federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the United States Treasury Department (Treasury), frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to Treasury regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The - 28 - - Table of Contents present federal income tax treatment of us and/or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative,legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of the United States Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under the Internal Revenue Code Section 7704(d) and the treatment of certain types of income earned from profits interests in the partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception to be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception”), affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax consequences for common unitholders of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. We are unable to predict whether any of these or other changes or proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units and the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. An IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the federal income tax positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may adversely impact the taxable income reported to our unitholders and the income taxes they are required to pay. As a result, any such contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any such contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. A unitholder will be required to pay taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. A unitholder will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income, whether or not the unitholder receives cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to the unitholder’s share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from the unitholder’s share of our taxable income. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets. If we default on any of our debt, the lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. Such an action could cause negative tax consequences for unitholders through the realization of taxable income by unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution. The taxable gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. A unitholder will recognize a gain or loss on the sale of common units equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder’s tax basis in those common units. A unitholder’s amount realized will be measured by the sum of the cash and the fair market value of other property received plus the unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities. Because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, the gain recognized on the sale of common units could result in a tax liability in excess of any cash received from the sale. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to a unitholder for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to a unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to a unitholder. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to unitholders who are organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, may be taxable to them as “unrelated - 29 - - Table of Contents business taxable income.” Distributions to non-U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. withholding taxes. Non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of applicable Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. We may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our units as of the close of business on the last day of the preceding month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Unitholders will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Unitholders will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns and foreign tax returns, as applicable. Some of the states in which we do business or own property may require us to, or we may elect to, withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular unitholder’s income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve the non-resident unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which may result in us filing two tax returns for one fiscal year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing taxable income. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, instead, we would be treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, and we could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that the termination had occurred. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) - 30 - - Table of Contents adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 