ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider the significant business risks described below in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The following list of risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment, and new risk factors may emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors nor assess the impact, if any, on the business, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause the actual results of operations to differ materially. Competitive pressures in the marketplace could decrease revenues and profits: Competitive pressures in the marketplace for our products could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. We operate in an environment where competition varies from moderate to intense and a number of our competitors have greater financial resources. Our competitors also include alliance partners that sell products that do or may compete with our products, particularly those that provide automatic meter reading (AMR) connectivity solutions. The principal elements of competition for our most significant product lines, residential and commercial water meters (with various AMR technology systems) for the utility market, are price, product technology, quality and service. The competitive environment is also affected by the movement toward AMR technologies away from local (or manual) read meters, the demand for replacement units and, to a lesser extent, the number of housing starts in the United States. For our industrial products, the competitive environment is affected by the general economic health of the industrial sectors in the United States and Europe. Technological developments could harm future success: We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop technologically advanced products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards. Although we believe that we currently have such advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages will require continued investment in research and development, sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantages. We are not currently aware of any emerging standards or new products that could render our existing products obsolete. 4 The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials could decrease profit margins and hinder timely delivery to customers: We are affected by the availability and prices for raw materials, including metal or alloys (such as bronze, which uses copper as its main component, aluminum, stainless steel, cast iron, brass and stellite), plastic resins, glass, microprocessors and other electronic subassemblies and components that are used in the manufacturing process. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing profit margins and by hindering timely delivery to customers. In the past, we have been able to offset increases in raw materials by increased sales prices, active materials management, product engineering programs and the diversity of materials used in the production processes. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to accomplish this in the future. Since we do not control the actual production of these raw materials, there may be delays caused by interruption in the production of raw materials for reasons that are beyond our control. World commodity markets and inflation may also affect raw material prices. A significant economic downturn could cause a material adverse impact on sales and operating results: As a supplier of products primarily to water utilities, we may be adversely affected by general economic downturns that affect independent distributors, large city utilities, private water companies and numerous smaller municipal water utilities. These customers may delay capital projects, including non-critical maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. While we also serve several industrial markets to avoid a dependency on any one, a significant downturn in these markets could also cause a material adverse impact on sales and operating results. In addition, a terrorist attack such as the one on September 11, 2001 could cause instability in world markets, which, we believe, could temporarily impact product purchases in the industry. Therefore, any significant downturn in general economic conditions, as well as in our customers’ markets, could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm the business. Failure to manufacture quality products could impact the ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues and profitability: If we fail to maintain and enforce quality control and testing procedures, our products will not meet the performance standards in the industry. Product quality and performance are a priority for us since our products are used in various industries where precise control of fluids is essential, and we believe we have a very good reputation for product quality. Substandard products would seriously harm our reputation, resulting in both a loss of current customers to competitors and damage to our ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues and profitability. Changes in environmental or regulatory requirements could entail additional expenses that could decrease profitability: We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future environmental or regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with such laws or regulations may entail additional expenses that could decrease profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, such as lead content in certain meters incorporating brass housings, and regulatory laws affecting the use and/or licensing of radio frequencies necessary for AMR products, as well as regulations related to customs and trade practices. Currently, the cost of complying with existing laws does not have a material effect on the business or financial position. Risks related to foreign markets could decrease profitability: Since we sell products worldwide as well as manufacture products in several countries, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. These risks include changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, differing labor regulations, and the difficulty of managing widespread operations. 5 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 