ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. Some of the following risks relate principally to our business and the industry and statutory and regulatory environment in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our stock. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position and may be forced to reduce our prices because of strong competition in the market for Internet services generally and domain name registration, in particular, which we expect will continue to intensify. The market for Internet services generally and domain registrations in particular is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving as participants strive to protect their current market share and improve their competitive position, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Most of our existing competitors are also expanding the variety of services that they offer. These competitors include, among others, domain name registrars, website design firms, website hosting companies, Internet service providers, Internet portals and search engine companies, including Google, Microsoft, Network Solutions, VeriSign and Yahoo!. Competitors like Microsoft, Google and Yahoo!, as well as other large Internet companies, have the ability to offer these services for free or at a reduced price as part of a bundle with other service offerings. If these companies decide to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of these new products and services, greater numbers of individuals and businesses may choose to use these competitors as their starting point for creating an online presence and as a general platform for running their online business operations. In particular, VeriSign may in the future decide to offer additional services that compete with our domain name registration services or other services. If VeriSign were to become a competitor of ours in our core business areas, VeriSign would likely enjoy a number of competitive advantages, including its position as the largest registry, as well as superior financial and operational resources and customer awareness within our industry. 7 In addition, other large competitors, in an attempt to gain market share, may also offer aggressive price discounts on the services they offer. These pricing pressures may require us to match these discounts in order to remain competitive, which would reduce our margins, or potentially cause us to lose customers altogether who decide to purchase these discounted services. We also face significant competition from other existing registrars and the continued introduction of new registrars in the domain registration industry. As of March 2, 2012, ICANN reflected approximately 1,009 accredited competitive registrars on their website, including our Company, to register domains in one or more of the gTLD’s compared to approximately 970 at March 17, 2011. Not all of these accredited registrars, however, are operational. There are relatively few barriers to entry in this market and the continued introduction of competitive registrars and Service Providers into the domain registration industry and the rapid growth of some competitive registrars and service providers who have already entered the industry may make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share. Some of these registrars may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, particularly in international markets, or greater resources than us. We expect that competition will increase in the near term and that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, we cannot predict the impact on the domain name industry of the anticipated introduction of new gTLDs by ICANN. If we do not properly manage our response to any resulting changes in the business environment, it could adversely impact our competitive position or market share. As our business model is premised upon selling multiple services through our resellers, we have competed aggressively to attract new clients and retain existing customers. As a result of these actions, our average selling prices have fallen and we may be required, by marketplace factors or otherwise, to reduce, perhaps significantly, the prices we charge for our domain registration and related products and services. The decline in our average selling price has partially offset the impact of increased transaction volume on our revenue and profitability. The likelihood of further declines in our selling price will increase if our competitors who charge these reduced fees are able to maintain customer service comparable to ours. We may face continued pricing pressure in order to remain competitive, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain registrations will incrementally increase, volatility in the market could result in our customers turning to other registrars, thereby impairing growth in the number of domains under our management and our ability to sell multiple services to such customers. Since our strategy is to expand the services we provide our customers, if we are unable to maintain our domain registrations, our ability to expand our business may be adversely effected. Each registry and the ICANN regulatory body impose a charge upon the registrar for the administration of each domain registration. If these fees increase, this may have a significant impact upon our operating results. Each registry typically imposes a fee in association with the registration of each domain. For example, effective July 1, 2010, the VeriSign registry increased the fee for each .com registration from a $6.86 fee to a $7.34 fee for each annual .com registration. ICANN charges a $0.18 fee for each domain name registered in the TLDs that fall within its purview. We have no control over these agencies and cannot predict when they may increase their respective fees. In terms of the current registry agreement between ICANN and Verisign that was approved by the U.S. Department of Commerce on November 30, 2006, VeriSign will continue as the exclusive registry for the .com gTLD through at least November 30, 2012. Under the terms of the current registry agreement, Verisign increased the price of each annual .com registration to $7.85 effective January 15, 2012. In terms of our pricing policy, these increases will be passed through to our resellers, while other registrars may choose to absorb them. If such cost increases act as a deterrent to registration, we may find that our profits are adversely impacted by these third-party fees. We rely on our network of resellers to renew their domain registrations through us and to distribute our services, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships, our revenues will decline. The growth of our business depends on, among other things, our resellers’ renewal of their customers’ domain registrations through us. Resellers may choose to renew their domains with other registrars or their registrants may choose not to renew and pay for renewal of their domains. This may reduce our resellers’ number of domain name registration customers which in turn would drive up their customer acquisition costs and harm our operating results. If resellers decide, for any reason, not to renew their registrations through us, it may in turn reduce the market to which our resellers could market our other higher-margin services, thereby further impacting our revenue and profitability and harming our operating results. 8 We believe that companies operating on the Internet are facing a period of consolidation. In addition, some of our resellers may decide to seek ICANN accreditation. Both of these situations could reduce the number of our active resellers, in which case our revenues may suffer. If any of our competitors merge with one another, they will present a stronger combined force in the market and may attract the business of both existing and prospective resellers. Resellers may opt to build their own technical systems and seek ICANN accreditation in order that they may process domain applications themselves. If a number of our customers decide to pursue this option, our sales will decrease. Our failure to secure agreements with country code registries or our subsequent failure to comply with the regulations of the country code registries could cause customers to seek a registrar that offers these services. The country code top-level domain, or ccTLD, registries require registrars to comply with specific regulations. Many of these regulations vary from ccTLD to ccTLD. If we fail to comply with the regulations imposed by ccTLD registries, these registries will likely prohibit us from registering or continuing to register domains in their ccTLD. Any failure on our part to offer domain registrations in a significant number of ccTLDs or in a popular ccTLD would cause us to lose a competitive advantage and could cause resellers to elect to take their business to a registrar that does offer these services. Our standard agreements may not be enforceable, which could subject us to liability. We operate on a global basis and all of our resellers must execute our standard agreements that govern the terms of the services we provide to our customers. These agreements contain provisions intended to limit our potential liability arising from the provision of services to our resellers and their customers, including liability resulting from our failure to register or maintain domains properly, from downtime or poor performance with respect to our Internet services, or for insecure or fraudulent transactions pursuant to which we have issued SSL certificates. As most of our customers purchase our services online, execution of our agreements by resellers occurs electronically or, in the case of our terms of use, is deemed to occur because of a user’s continued use of the website following notice of those terms. We believe that our reliance on these agreements is consistent with the practices in our industry, but if a domestic, foreign or international court were to find that either one of these methods of execution is invalid or that key provisions of our services agreements are unenforceable, we could be subject to liability that has a material adverse effect on our business or we could be required to change our business practices in a way that increases our cost of doing business. Regulation could reduce the value of Internet domain names or negatively impact the Internet domain acquisition process, which could significantly impair the value attributable to our acquisitions of Internet domain names. The acquisition of expiring domain names for parked page commercialization, the sale of names or acquisition of names for other uses, involves the registration of thousands of Internet domain names, both in the United States and internationally. We have and intend to continue to acquire previously-owned Internet domain names that have expired and have, following the period of permitted reclamation by their prior owners, been made available for sale. The acquisition of Internet domain names generally is governed by federal or international regulatory bodies. The regulation of Internet domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional requirements for previously-owned Internet domain names or modify the requirements for holding Internet domain names. As a result, we might not acquire or maintain names that contribute to our financial results in the same manner as we currently do. Because certain Internet domain names are important assets, a failure to acquire or maintain such Internet domain names could adversely affect our financial results and our growth. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our stock price to decline. We have presence in the hosted messaging and email market, which is a volatile business. Factors that are likely to contribute to fluctuations in our operating results from provisioning hosted email services include: • the demand for outsourced email services; • our ability to attract and retain customers and provide customer satisfaction; 9 • the ability to upgrade, develop and maintain our systems and infrastructure and to effectively respond to the rapid technological changes in the email market; • the budgeting and payment cycles of our existing and potential customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of the email service; and • the introduction of new or enhanced services by competitors. In order to succeed in the hosted email business, our email product must remain competitive. We believe that some of the competitive factors affecting the market for hosted email services include: • breadth of platform features and functionality of our offering and the sophistication and innovation of our competitors; • scalability, reliability, performance and ease of expansion and upgrade; • ease of integration with customers’ existing systems; and • flexibility to enable customers to manage certain aspects of their systems and leverage outsourced services in other cases when resources, costs and time to market reasons favor an outsourced offering. We believe competition will continue to be strong and further increase as our market attracts new competition, current competitors aggressively pursue customers, increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in the business and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Any delay in our development and delivery of new services or enhancement of existing services would allow our competitors additional time to improve their product offerings and provide time for new competition to develop and market messaging services. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could cause our financial results to decline. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our customers our revenue may decline. Our network of resellers are our principal source for distributing services. We also rely on our resellers to market, promote and sell our services. Our ability to increase revenues in the future will depend significantly on our ability to maintain our reseller network, to sell more services through existing resellers and to develop our relationships with existing resellers by providing customer and sales support and additional products. Resellers have no obligations to distribute our services and may stop doing so at any time. If we are not able to maintain our relationships with resellers, our ability to distribute our services will be harmed, and our revenue may decline. Disputes over registration of domain names, the activities of our reseller’s customers or the content of their websites could subject us to liability and could negatively affect the public’s perception of our corporate image. As a registrar of domain names services, we may be subject to potential liability for illegal activities by our reseller’s customers on their websites. We provide an automated service that enables users to register domain names. We do not monitor or review, nor does our accreditation agreement with ICANN require that we monitor or review, the appropriateness of the domain names we register for our customers or the content of their websites, and we have no control over the activities in which these customers engage. While we have policies in place to terminate domain names or to take other action if presented with evidence of illegal conduct, customers could nonetheless engage in prohibited activities without our knowledge. 10 Several bodies of law may be deemed to apply to us with respect to various customer activities. Because we operate in a relatively new and rapidly evolving industry, and since our industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology and in new and growing illegal activity, these bodies of laws are constantly evolving. Some of the laws that apply to us with respect to certain customer activities include the following: • The Communications Decency Act of 1996, or CDA, generally protects online service providers, such as Tucows, from liability for certain activities of their customers, such as posting of defamatory or obscene content, unless the online service provider is participating in the unlawful conduct. Notwithstanding the general protections from liability under the CDA, we may nonetheless be forced to defend ourselves from claims of liability covered by the CDA, resulting in an increased cost of doing business. • The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, or DMCA, provides recourse for owners of copyrighted material who believe that their rights under U.S. copyright law have been infringed on the Internet. Under this statute, we generally are not liable for infringing content posted by third parties. However, if we receive a proper notice from a copyright owner alleging infringement of its protected works by web pages for which we provide hosting services, and we fail to expeditiously remove or disable access to the allegedly infringing material, fail to post and enforce a digital rights management policy or a policy to terminate accounts of repeat infringers, or otherwise fail to meet the requirements of the safe harbor under the statute, the owner may seek to impose liability on us. Although established statutory law and case law in these areas to date generally have shielded us from liability for customer activities, court rulings in pending or future litigation may serve to narrow the scope of protection afforded us under these laws. In addition, laws governing these activities are unsettled in many international jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible for us to comply with in some international jurisdictions. Also, notwithstanding the exculpatory language of these bodies of law, we may be embroiled in complaints and lawsuits which, even if ultimately resolved in our favor, add cost to our doing business and may divert management’s time and attention. Finally, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various states, may be deemed to apply or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future, any of which could expose us to further liability and increase our costs of doing business. Domain name registrars also face potential tort law liability for their role in wrongful transfers of domain names. The safeguards and procedures we have adopted may not be successful in insulating us against liability from such claims in the future. In addition, we face potential liability for other forms of “domain name hijacking,” including misappropriation by third parties of our network of customer domain names and attempts by third parties to operate websites on these domain names or to extort the customer whose domain name and website were misappropriated. Furthermore, our risk of incurring liability for a security breach on a customer website would increase if the security breach were to occur following our sale to a customer of an SSL certificate that proved ineffectual in preventing it. Finally, we are exposed to potential liability as a result of our private domain name registration service, wherein we become the domain name registrant, on a proxy basis, on behalf of our customers. While we have a policy of providing the underlying Whois information and reserve the right to cancel privacy services on domain names giving rise to domain name disputes including when we receive reasonable evidence of an actionable harm, the safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid liability in the future, which could increase our costs of doing business. The international nature of our business exposes us to certain business risks that could limit the effectiveness of our growth strategy and cause our results of operations to suffer. Expansion into international markets is an element of our growth strategy. Introducing and marketing our services internationally, developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels and managing foreign personnel and operations will require significant management attention and financial resources. We face a number of risks associated with expanding our business internationally that could negatively impact our results of operations, including: • management, communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; • compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding liability of online resellers for activities of customers and more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to the privacy and protection of third-party data; • accreditation and other regulatory requirements to provide domain name registration, website hosting and other services in foreign jurisdictions; • competition from companies with international operations, including large international competitors and entrenched local companies; 11 • to the extent we choose to make acquisitions to enable our international expansion efforts, the identification of suitable acquisition targets in the markets into which we want to expand; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions; • political and economic instability in some international markets; • sufficiency of qualified labor pools in various international markets; • currency fluctuations and exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences or an inability to realize tax benefits; and • the lower level of adoption of the Internet in many international markets. We may not succeed in our efforts to expand our international presence as a result of the factors described above or other factors that may have an adverse impact on our overall financial condition and results of operations. We currently license many third party technologies and may need to license further technologies which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments We currently license certain technologies from third parties and incorporate them into certain of our services including email, anti-spam and anti-virus. The Internet services market is evolving and we may need to license additional technologies to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we cannot license necessary solutions, we may have to devote our resources to development of such technologies, which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments overall. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate licensed technology into our services. These third party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks related to the integration of new technology and potential intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, an inability to obtain needed licenses could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. Any delays in services or integration problems could hinder our ability to attract and retain customers and cause our business and operating results to suffer. Our advertising revenues may be subject to fluctuations. We believe that Internet advertising spending, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic cycles and during any calendar year, with spending being weighted towards the end of the year to reflect trends in the retail industry. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and typically decreases when economic conditions are not favorable. A decrease in demand for Internet advertising could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire companies or make investments in, or enter into licensing arrangements with, other companies with technologies that are complementary to our business and these acquisitions or arrangements could disrupt our business, cause us to require additional financing and dilute your holdings in our company. We may acquire companies, assets or the rights to technologies in the future in order to develop new services or enhance existing services, to enhance our operating infrastructure, to fund expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary businesses. Entering into these types of arrangements entails many risks, any of which could materially harm our business, including: • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the failure to effectively integrate the acquired technology or company into our business; • the incurring of significant acquisition costs; 12 • the loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; and • the assumption of significant liabilities of the acquired company. In addition, absent sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need that funding. In addition, even though we may have sufficient cash flow, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital, to pay dividends and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. Any of the foregoing or other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. We may not be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. If we do effect an acquisition, it is possible that the financial markets or investors will view the acquisition negatively. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. Our business depends on a strong brand. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed. In recognition of the evolving nature of the internet services market and to make it easier to clearly differentiate each service we offer from our competitors, we enhanced our branding by focusing our service offerings under four distinct brands namely “OpenSRS”, “YummyNames”, “Hover” and “Butterscotch”. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the “Tucows” corporate brand and our service brands is critical to expanding our customer base. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brands may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader providing high quality products and services, which we may not do successfully. To date, we have engaged in relatively little direct brand promotion activities. This enhances the risk that we may not successfully implement brand enhancement efforts in the future. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights, the value of those rights could be diminished. We rely upon copyright, trade secret and trademark law, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements and work-for-hire agreements to protect our proprietary technology, all of which offer only limited protection. We cannot ensure that our efforts to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation by third parties, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States of America and Canada. We have licensed, and may in the future license, some of our trademarks and other proprietary rights to others. Third parties may also reproduce or use our intellectual property rights without seeking a license and thus benefit from our technology without paying for it. Third parties could also independently develop technology, processes or other intellectual property that are similar to or superior to those used by us. Actions by licensees, misappropriation of the intellectual property rights or independent development by others of similar or superior technology might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or damage our reputation. 13 The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, including copying the look, feel and functionality of our website could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without us receiving any compensation. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on our taking legal action against these infringing parties, and we cannot be sure that these actions will be successful. Because of the global nature of the Internet, our websites can be viewed worldwide. However, we do not have intellectual property protection in every jurisdiction. Furthermore, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services become available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We may not be able to realize the intended and anticipated benefits from our acquisitions of expiring domain names, which could affect the value of these acquisitions to our business and our ability to meet our financial obligations and targets. We may not be able to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisition of expiring domain names. These intended and anticipated benefits include increasing our cash flow from operations, broadening our Internet service offerings and delivering services that strengthen our reseller relationships. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include: • A significant amount of revenue attributed to our domain name assets comes from the provision of personalized email services and the generation of revenue from third party advertisements on parked pages. Some of our existing resellers who provide similar services may perceive this as a competitive threat and therefore may decide to terminate their agreements with us because of our acquisitions of a substantial number of expiring domain names. • We will need to continue to acquire commercially valuable expiring domain names to grow our presence in the field of direct navigation. We will need to continuously improve our technologies to acquire valuable expiring domain names as competition in the marketplace for appropriate expiring domain names intensifies. Our domain name acquisition efforts are subject to rules and guidelines established by registries which maintain Internet domain name registrations and other registrars who process and facilitate Internet domain name registrations. The registries and registrars may change the rules and guidelines for acquiring expiring domains in ways that may prove detrimental to our domain name acquisition efforts. • The business of direct navigation is dependent on current technologies and user practices. If browser or search technologies were to change significantly, the practice of direct navigation may be altered to our disadvantage. If the acquired assets are not integrated into our business as we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve the benefits of these acquired assets or realize the value paid for the asset acquisitions, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the means by which end users access our web sites and material changes to current navigation practices or technologies or marketing practices could result in a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our parked pages business depends in large part upon the current end user tendency to type desired destinations directly into the web browser. End users employ this practice of direct navigation to access our web sites primarily through the following methods: directly accessing our web sites by typing descriptive keywords or keyword strings into the uniform resource locator, or URL, address box of an Internet browser, accessing our web sites by clicking on bookmarked web sites and accessing our web sites indirectly through search engines and directories. Each of these methods requires the use of a third party product or service, such as an Internet browser or search engine or directory. Internet browsers may provide alternatives to the URL address box to locate web sites, and search engines may from time to time change and establish rules regarding the indexing and optimization of web sites. Product developments and market practices for these means of access to our web sites are not within our control. We may experience a decline in traffic to our web sites if third party browser technologies or search engine methodologies and rules, including those affecting marketing efforts, are changed to our disadvantage. 14 If the practice of direct navigation becomes less popular either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, our ability to generate revenue from the practice of click through advertising may suffer. A significant amount of revenue generated from the commercialization of domain names owned by the Company is dependent on our agreements with third party providers. The monetization of these domain names is currently largely dependent on the paid listings allocated by these providers to the websites associated with our domain names. This allocation may depend on each provider’s advertiser base, internal policies and other factors and determinations that may or may not be controlled by or known to us. We may experience unforeseen liabilities in connection with our domain name portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial results. We currently own a portfolio of domain names that were previously owned by another third-party. In addition, we have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, other previously owned domain names. While we have a policy against acquiring domain names that infringe on third-party intellectual property rights, including trademarks or confusingly similar business names, in some cases, these acquired names may have trademark significance that is not readily apparent to us or is not identified by us in the bulk purchasing process. As a result, we may face demands by third party trademark owners asserting infringement or dilution of their rights and seeking transfer of the domain names through the Uniform Domain Name Resolution Policy, or UDRP, adopted by ICANN or actions under the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, or ACPA. We may also face actions from third-parties under national trademark or anti-competition legislation. We review each claim or demand on its merits and we intend to transfer any such previously owned domain names acquired by us to parties that have demonstrated a valid prior right of claim. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be able to resolve all such disputes without litigation. The potential violation of third party intellectual property rights and potential causes of action under consumer protection laws may subject us to unforeseen liabilities, including injunctions and judgments for monetary damages. Once any infringement is detected, disputes concerning the ownership or rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from operating the business, and may result in us losing significant rights and our ability to operate all or a portion of our business. Claims of infringement of intellectual property or other rights of third parties against us could result in substantial costs. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights against us concerning past, current or future technologies. Content obtained from third parties and distributed over the Internet by us may result in liability for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, product or service liability and dissemination of computer viruses or other disruptive problems. We may also be subject to claims from third parties asserting trademark infringement, unfair competition and violation of publicity and privacy rights relating specifically to domains. As a domain name registrar, we regularly become involved in disputes over registration of domain names. Most of these disputes arise as a result of a third party registering a domain name that is identical or similar to another party’s trademark or the name of a living person. These disputes are typically resolved through the UDRP, ICANN’s administrative process for domain name dispute resolution, or less frequently through litigation under the ACPA, or under general theories of trademark infringement or dilution. The UDRP generally does not impose liability on registrars, and the ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for registering or maintaining a domain name absent a showing of bad faith intent to profit or reckless disregard of a court order by the registrars. However, we may face liability if we fail to comply in a timely manner with procedural requirements under these rules. In addition, these processes typically require at least limited involvement by us, and therefore increase our cost of doing business. The volume of domain name registration disputes may increase in the future as the overall number of registered domain names increases. These claims and any related litigation could result in significant costs of defense, liability for damages and diversion of management’s time and attention. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making these claims. If a successful claim of infringement is brought against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, we may have to limit or discontinue the business operations which used the infringing technology. 15 We rely on technologies licensed from other parties. These third-party technology licenses may infringe on the proprietary rights of others and may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss of this technology could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, which could increase our costs and make our products and services less attractive to customers. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for data and content carried on or disseminated through their networks is currently unsettled and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. It is possible that claims could be made against online services companies under U.S., Canadian or foreign law for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on data or content disseminated through their networks, even if a user independently originated this data or content. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability upon Internet service companies have been filed in U.S. and foreign courts. While the United States has passed laws protecting ISPs from liability for actions by independent users in limited circumstances, this protection may not apply in any particular case at issue. Our ability to monitor, censor or otherwise restrict the types of data or content distributed through our network is limited. Failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations in particular jurisdictions could result in fines, penalties or the suspension or termination of our services in these jurisdictions. Our insurance may not be adequate to compensate or may not cover us at all in the event we incur liability for damages due to data and content carried on or disseminated through our network. Any costs not covered by insurance that are incurred as a result of this liability or alleged liability, including any damages awarded and costs of litigation, could harm our business and prospects. Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our services compromise the privacy of our users and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results and expose us to litigation and possible liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation, or fraud claims and other claims relating to the misuse of personal information and unauthorized marketing purposes. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, due to the fact that our services are web based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our services as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of Internet services we offer. A large number of legislative proposals pending before the United States Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concern data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of data protection laws in Europe and elsewhere are still unsettled. We cannot guarantee that our current information-collection procedures and disclosure policies will be found to be in compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. If our policies and procedures are found not to be in compliance, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could in turn have a material effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. We intend to participate in ICANN's new gTLD Program, which may present us with unique operational and other risks. If we are unsuccessful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. ICANN has approved a framework for the significant expansion of the number of gTLDs in 2012. If this expansion is completed, we intend to pursue certain opportunities in connection with the new gTLD program, which may include operating the back-end infrastructure for new gTLD registries and/or owning and operating one or more of our own gTLDs. We currently have no operating experience providing back-end registry services to existing registries or acting as an owner and operator of domain name registries for gTLD strings. Our participation in the new gTLD program may involve us in new and complex processes with respect to the application and awarding of gTLD strings by ICANN, which may require that we expend significant resources to integrate these processes into our current operations. Participation in the new program may also require us to rely upon, negotiate and collaborate with independent third parties, with whom we may not have long-term contracts. In addition, we expect to compete with other established and more experienced operators in these proposed service offerings and may not be able to compete effectively with these operators. If we are unsuccessful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 Because we are required to recognize revenue for our services over the term of the applicable customer agreement, changes in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from our customers ratably over the respective terms of their agreements with us as required by GAAP. Typically, our domain name registration agreements have terms that range from one to ten years, and our website hosting agreements have annual or month-to-month terms. Accordingly, any increases or decreases in sales during a particular period do not translate into immediate, proportional increases or decreases in revenue during that period, and a substantial portion of the revenue that we recognize during a quarter, is derived from deferred revenue from customer agreements that we entered into during previous quarters. As a result, we may not generate net earnings despite substantial sales activity during a particular period, since we are not permitted under GAAP to recognize all of the revenue from these sales immediately, and because we are required to reflect a significant portion of our related operating expenses in full during that period. Conversely, the existence of substantial deferred revenue may prevent deteriorating sales activity from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. In addition, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, and any significant shortfall in revenue relative to planned expenditures could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect us. Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. We do not account for these instruments as hedges in our consolidated financial statements. If we do not maintain a low rate of credit card chargebacks, we will face the prospect of financial penalties and could lose our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenue originates from online credit card transactions. Under current credit card industry practices, we are liable for fraudulent and disputed credit card transactions because we do not obtain the cardholder’s signature at the time of the transaction, even though the financial institution issuing the credit card may have authorized the transaction. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contract with our processor, we are required to reimburse our processor for such penalties. Our current level of fraud protection, based on our fraudulent and disputed credit card transaction history, is within the guidelines established by the credit card associations. However, we face the risk that one or more credit card associations may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Forecasting our tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. We are subject to income and other taxes in a number of jurisdictions and our tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. We must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance that may be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by the applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our current and future tax liabilities could be adversely affected by: • international income tax authorities, including the Canada Revenue Agency and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, challenging the validity of our arm’s- length related party transfer pricing policies or the validity of our contemporaneous documentation. 17 • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; or • changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or the interpretations of such laws. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. Enacted in July 2010, The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to exclude smaller reporting companies, like Tucows, from the requirement to obtain an audit report on internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls cannot guarantee assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on our stock price, and it could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a decrease in earnings. Current accounting rules require that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives may no longer be amortized, but instead must be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, the quarterly amortization expense is increased or decreased. We have substantial goodwill and other intangible assets, and we would be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. Any impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could suffer uninsured losses. Although we maintain general liability insurance, claims could exceed the coverage obtained or might not be covered by our insurance. While we typically obtain representations from our technology and content providers and contractual partners concerning the ownership of licensed technology and informational content and obtain indemnification to cover any breach of these representations, we still may not receive accurate representations or adequate compensation for any breach of these representations. We may have to pay a substantial amount of money for claims that are not covered by insurance or indemnification or for claims where the existing scope or adequacy of insurance or indemnification is disputed or insufficient. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies could impact our results of operations. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services. The recent national and global economic downturn resulted in, among other things, a decline in overall consumer and corporate spending. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the consumers’ level of disposable income, consumer debt and overall consumer confidence. Although the economy has shown signs of stabilization, there is no guarantee as to when or if overall consumer and corporate spending will return to pre-recession levels. Our services may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential customers and be dependent upon levels of consumer spending. As a result, resellers and consumers considering whether to purchase our services may be influenced by macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending such as unemployment, continuing increases in fuel costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets and access to credit. 18 To the extent conditions in the economy remain uncertain or deteriorate, our business could be impacted as customers choose to leave our services, to reduce their service level or to stop purchasing our services. In addition, our efforts to attract new customers may be adversely affected. The current economic conditions may also adversely impact our key vendors. In uncertain and adverse economic conditions, decreased consumer spending is likely to result in a variety of negative effects such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and recognition of impairments of assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. Uncertainty and adverse economic conditions may also lead to a decreased ability to collect payment for our services due primarily to a decline in the ability of our business customers to use or access credit, including through credit cards, which is how most of our customers pay for our services. We also expect to continue to experience volatility in foreign exchange rates, which could negatively impact the amount of expenses we incur and the net assets we record in future periods. If any of the above risks are realized, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected by a wide variety of factors, including: • our ability to maintain revenue growth at current levels or anticipate a decline in revenue from any of our services; • our ability to identify and develop new technologies or services and to commercialize those technologies into new services in a timely manner; • the mix of our services sold during the quarter or year; • our ability to make appropriate decisions which will position us to achieve further growth; • concentrated capital expenditures in any particular period to support our growth or for other reasons; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, changes in domain name fees charged to us by Internet registries or ICANN, or other competitive pressures on selling prices; • our ability to identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel, and to achieve targeted productivity levels; • market acceptance of Internet services generally and of new and enhanced versions of our services in particular; • our ability to establish and maintain a competitive advantage; • the continued development of our global distribution channel and our ability to compete in multiple countries successfully as part of our sales and marketing strategy; • the number and significance of service enhancements and new service and technology announcements by our competitors; • our ability to identify, develop, deliver, and introduce in a timely manner new and enhanced versions of our current service offerings that anticipate market demand and address customer needs; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates and issues relating to the conversion to the Canadian dollar; • foreign, federal or state regulation affecting our business; 19 • our ability to continue to attract users to our website; • our ability to attract software developers to participate in our Author Resource Center; • our ability to continue to attract advertisers to place content on our website; • technical difficulties or other factors that result in system downtime; • seasonality of the markets and businesses of our customers; • news relating to our industry as a whole; • our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights; • our ability to manage Internet fraud and information theft; and • current economic conditions. Our operating expenses may increase. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends that are more difficult to predict in periods of economic uncertainty. We intend to continue our efforts to control discretionary spending; however, we will continue to selectively incur expenditures in areas that we believe will strengthen our position in the marketplace. If we do not meet revenue goals, we may not be able to meet reduced operating expense levels and our operating results will suffer. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below our expectations and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall. Risks Related To the Internet and Our Technology Our business could be materially harmed if the administration and operation of the Internet no longer rely upon the existing domain system. The domain registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without the use of the existing domain system. Some of our competitors have begun registering domains with extensions that rely on such alternate systems. These competitors are not subject to ICANN accreditation requirements and restrictions. Other competitors have attempted to introduce naming systems that use keywords rather than traditional domains. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The law relating to the use of and ownership in intellectual property on the Internet is currently unsettled and may expose us to unforeseen liabilities. There have been ongoing legislative developments and judicial decisions concerning trademark infringement claims, unfair competition claims and dispute resolution policies relating to the registration of domains. To help protect ourselves from liability in the face of these ongoing legal developments, we have taken the following precautions: • Our standard registration agreement requires that each registrant indemnify, defend and hold us harmless for any dispute arising from the registration or use of a domain registered in that person’s name; and • Since December 1, 1999, we have required our resellers to ensure that all registrants are bound to the UDRP as approved by ICANN. Despite these precautions, we cannot be assured that our indemnity and dispute resolution policies will be sufficient to protect us against claims asserted by various third parties, including claims of trademark infringement and unfair competition. 20 New laws or regulations concerning domains and registrars may be adopted at any time. Our responses to uncertainty in the industry or new regulations could increase our costs or prevent us from delivering our domain registration services over the Internet, which could delay growth in demand for our services and limit the growth of our revenues. New and existing laws may cover issues such as: • pricing controls; • the creation of additional generic top level domains and country code domains; • consumer protection; • cross-border domain registrations; • trademark, copyright and patent infringement; • domain dispute resolution; and • the nature or content of domains and domain registration. An example of legislation passed in response to novel intellectual property concerns created by the Internet is the ACPA enacted by the United States government in November 1999. This law seeks to curtail a practice commonly known in the domain registration industry as cybersquatting. A cybersquatter is generally defined in the ACPA as one who registers a domain that is identical or similar to another party’s trademark, or the name of another living person, with the bad faith intent to profit from use of the domain. The ACPA states that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain for another person absent a showing of the registrar’s bad faith intent to profit from the use of the domain. Registrars may be held liable, however, if they do not comply promptly with procedural provisions of the ACPA. For example, if there is litigation involving a domain, the registrar is required to deposit a certificate representing the domain registration with the court. If we are held liable under the ACPA, any liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Internet usage does not grow or if the Internet does not continue to expand as a medium for commerce, our business may suffer. Our success depends upon the continued development and acceptance of the Internet as a widely used medium for commerce and communication. Rapid growth in the uses of, and interest in, the Internet is a relatively recent phenomenon and its continued growth cannot be assured. A number of factors could prevent continued growth, development and acceptance, including: • the unwillingness of companies and consumers to shift their purchasing from traditional vendors to online vendors; • the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it, and its performance and reliability may decline as usage grows; • security and authentication issues may create concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information; and • privacy concerns, including those related to the ability of websites to gather user information without the user’s knowledge or consent, may impact consumers’ willingness to interact online. Any of these issues could slow the growth of the Internet, which could limit our growth and revenues. We believe that part of our growth will be derived from resellers in international markets and may suffer if Internet usage does not continue to grow globally. We believe that a major source of growth for Internet-based companies will come from individuals and businesses outside the United States where Internet access and use is currently less prevalent. A substantial number of our resellers are currently based outside the United States and we plan to grow our business in other countries. If Internet usage in these jurisdictions does not increase as anticipated, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. 21 We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological changes in the industry, and our attempts to respond may require significant capital expenditures. The Internet and electronic commerce are characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new applications and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could make our applications, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of applications and services in the Internet application and services industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our applications and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability: • to develop and license new applications, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and • to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of applications and services and other proprietary technology involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt our internally developed technology and transaction- processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely manner, or at all. Our internal development teams may also be unable to keep pace with new technological developments that affect the marketplace for our services. In addition, as we offer new services and functionality, we will need to ensure that any new services and functionality are well integrated with our current services, particularly as we offer an increasing number of our services as part of bundled suites. To the extent that any new services offered by us do not interoperate well with our existing services, our ability to market and sell those new services would be adversely affected and our revenue level and ability to achieve and sustain profitability might be harmed. Updating technology internally and licensing new technology from third parties may require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures. We could experience system failures and capacity constraints which could diminish our ability to effectively provide our services and could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. The availability of our services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Our systems face security risks, and any compromise of the security of these systems could result in liability for damages and in lost customers. Our security systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers or others, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate customer or proprietary information or cause interruptions in Internet operations. Internet and online resellers have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, interruptions in service because of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others. We may need to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or alleviate problems caused by breaches. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to users accessing our websites and the web pages that deliver our content services. An information technology systems security breach may lead to a material disruption of our systems and/or the loss of business information, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Risks relating to such a security breach may include, among other things: a material, adverse impact on our business and future financial results due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential data, negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, vendors, or peers due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential data, operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information technology systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities and adverse effects on our compliance with regulatory laws and regulations. Repeated or substantial interruptions could result in the loss of customers and reduced revenues. 22 We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of customers and cause us to incur additional expenses. To be successful, our network infrastructure must perform well and be reliable. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our services, the more computing power we will need. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase of new equipment to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to enable it to handle increased traffic. This expansion is expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. If we do not expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our services and our customers’ experience could decline. This could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers. Cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business requirements could harm our operating results and financial condition. We rely on bandwidth providers, data centers and other vendors in providing services to our customers, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. We rely on vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers in providing services to our customers. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these providers or any failure of these providers to handle current or increased volumes of use could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may also have negative effects on our business. We exercise little control over these vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We license technology and related databases to facilitate certain aspects of our data center and connectivity operations, including Internet traffic management services. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for such elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays in connection with these technologies and information services could harm our relationship with customers, adversely affect our brand and expose us to liabilities. New tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the demand for our marketing services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that, although our services and the Internet transmissions related to them typically originate in Virginia, Toronto and Germany, governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet on Tucows or on our customers. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be accused of intellectual property infringement of the technology we have employed to support both our back end platform and the products and services we offer to and through our resellers and may be sued for damages caused by actual use of the platforms or products and services and we may be required to pay substantial damage awards. We seek to ensure that we have licensed or otherwise secured the necessary rights to use and offer for use all intellectual property relating to our platforms and the services we offer resellers through the platforms. Despite our efforts, we may be sued by third parties claiming rights in and to the technology we employ or by third parties who claim to have suffered as a result of any use, or inability to use, the platforms, products and services. If we are sued, defense of any such claims may require the resources of both our time and money. If a third-party is successful in its assertions, we may be required to pay damages that may have a material impact on our financial resources. 23 Governmental and Regulatory Risks Governmental and regulatory policies or claims concerning the domain registration system, and industry reactions to those policies or claims, may cause instability in the industry and disrupt our domain registration business. ICANN Oversight of Domain Name Registration System Before 1999, Network Solutions managed the domain registration system for the .com, .net and .org domains on an exclusive basis under a cooperative agreement with the U.S. government. In November 1998, the U.S. Department of Commerce authorized ICANN, a private sector, not for profit corporation, to oversee key aspects of the domain registration system. ICANN has been subject to strict scrutiny by the public and by the government in the United States of America. For example, in the United States of America, Congress has held hearings to evaluate ICANN’s selection process for new top level domains. In addition, ICANN faces significant questions regarding its financial viability and efficacy as a private sector entity. ICANN may continue to evolve both its long term structure and mission to address perceived shortcomings such as a lack of accountability to the public and a failure to maintain a diverse representation of interests on its Board of Directors. We continue to face the risks that: • the U.S. or any other government may reassess its decision to introduce competition into, or ICANN’s role in overseeing, the domain registration market; • the Internet community or the U.S. Department of Commerce or U.S. Congress may refuse to recognize ICANN’s authority or support its policies, which could create instability in the domain registration system; • some of ICANN’s policies and practices, and the policies and practices adopted by registries and registrars, could be found to conflict with the laws of one or more jurisdictions; • ICANN may lose any one of the several claims pending against it in both the U.S. and international courts, in which case its credibility may suffer and its policies may be discredited; • the terms of the Registrar Accreditation Agreement, under which we are accredited as a registrar, could change in ways that are disadvantageous to us or under certain circumstances could be terminated by ICANN preventing us from operating our Registrar; • ICANN and, under their registry agreements, VeriSign and other registries may impose increased fees received for each ICANN accredited registrar and/or domain name registration managed by those registries; • ICANN or any registries may implement policy changes that would impact our ability to run our current business practices throughout the various stages of the lifecycle of a domain name; • foreign constituents may succeed in their efforts to have domain name registration removed from a U.S. based entity and placed in the hands of an international cooperative; and • international regulatory or governing bodies, such as the International Telecommunications Union or the European Union, may gain increased influence over the management and regulation of the domain registration system, leading to increased regulation in areas such as taxation and privacy. If any of these events occur, they could create instability in the domain registration system. These events could also disrupt or suspend portions of our domain registration solution, which would result in reduced revenue. 24 Governmental Regulation Affecting the Internet To date, government regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in most parts of the world. The legal and regulatory environment pertaining to the Internet, however, is uncertain and may change. New laws may be passed, existing but previously inapplicable laws may be deemed to apply to the Internet, or existing legal safe harbors may be narrowed, both by U.S. federal or state governments and by governments of foreign jurisdictions. These changes could affect: • the liability of online resellers for actions by customers, including fraud, illegal content, spam, phishing, libel and defamation, infringement of third-party intellectual property and other abusive conduct; • other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials, such as pornography; • user privacy and security issues; • consumer protection; • sales and other taxes, including the value-added tax of the European Union member states; • characteristics and quality of services; and • cross-border commerce. The adoption of any new laws or regulations, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations to the Internet, could hinder growth in use of the Internet and online services generally, and decrease acceptance of the Internet and online services as a means of communications, commerce and advertising. In addition, such changes in laws could increase our costs of doing business, subject our business to increased liability or prevent us from delivering our services over the Internet, thereby harming our business and results of operations. We may be subject to government regulation that may be costly and may interfere with our ability to conduct business. Although transmission of our websites primarily originates in Canada and the United States, the Internet is global in nature. Governments of foreign countries might try to regulate our transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. Because of the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws or regulations in the future concerning commercial online services and the Internet, with respect to: • user privacy; • children; • copyrights and other intellectual property rights and infringement; • domains; • pricing; • content regulation; • defamation; • taxation; and • the characteristics and quality of products and services. Laws and regulations directly applicable to online commerce or Internet communications are becoming more prevalent. Laws and regulations such as those listed above or others, if enacted, could expose us to substantial liability and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. 25 Risks Related to our Stock We do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the immediate future. We anticipate that in the immediate future, our earnings, if any, will be retained for use in the business and that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock. While we may decide to declare such dividends in the future, declaration of dividends on our common stock will depend upon, among other things, future earnings, our operating and financial condition, our capital requirements, ongoing market conditions and general business conditions. We are controlled by a limited number of principal shareholders, which may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 5, 2011, three of our principal shareholders beneficially own approximately 23% of the shares of our common stock. These shareholders could have a significant impact on the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other transactions causing a change in control. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership. Our share price is volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares of common stock when they want to, at an attractive price. Our share price has varied recently and the price of our common stock may decrease in the future, regardless of our operating performance. Investors may be unable to resell their common stock following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to this volatility. The following factors may contribute to this volatility: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • interruptions in our services; • seasonality of the markets and businesses of our customers; • announcements of new technologies or new services by our company or our competitors; • our ability to accurately select appropriate business models and strategies; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may view as comparable to us; • news relating to our industry as a whole; and • news relating to trends in our markets. The stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, including our company, has experienced volatility. This volatility often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may cause the price of our common stock to drop, regardless of our performance. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, the market price of the common stock could fall. The perception among investors that these sales will occur could also produce this effect. 26 