Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2 Properties 34 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 35 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 57 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 57 Item 9B Other Information 58 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 58 Item 11 Executive Compensation 58 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 58 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 58 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Report on Form 10-K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements by us with regard to our expectations as to financial results and other aspects of our business that involve risks and uncertainties and may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “may,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect” and “intend,” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements regarding, among other things, the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain names, the competition we expect to encounter as our business develops and competes in a broad range of Internet services, the effectiveness of our intellectual property protection, including our ability to license proprietary rights to network partners and to register additional trademarks and service marks, our belief that the market for domain name registration will trend upward gradually, our belief that it is more likely than not that net deferred assets will be realized; our expectations regarding our acquisition of the assets of Critical Path, Inc.; our expectations regarding the cost of compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and our belief that, by increasing the number of applications and services we offer, we will be able to generate higher revenues. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Many factors affect our ability to achieve our objectives and to successfully develop and commercialize our services including: Our ability to continue to generate sufficient working capital to meet our operating requirements; Our ability to maintain a good working relationship with our vendors and customers The ability of vendors to continue to supply our needs; Actions by our competitors; Our ability to achieve gross profit margins at which we can be profitable; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in our business; Our ability to effectively manage our business; Our ability to obtain and maintain approvals from regulatory authorities on regulatory issues; Pending or new litigation; and Factors set forth herein under the caption “Item 1A Risk Factors”. This list of factors that may affect our future performance and financial and competitive position and also the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but it is by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this document, and we assume no obligation to update these cautionary statements or any forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We qualify all the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K by the foregoing cautionary statements. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We provide Internet services and downloadable software through a global distribution network of more than 6,000 customers. Our customers or Service Providers are primarily web hosting companies, ISPs and providers of other services over the Internet. These Service Providers are located in more than 100 countries. We are an accredited registrar with ICANN and generate revenue primarily through the provision of domain registration and other Internet services to Service Providers who offer such services to their own customers in a process known as wholesale distribution. We were in the first group of 34 registrars accredited by ICANN in 1999. As of February 28, 2006, the number of registrars accredited by ICANN is 574. ICANN maintains a list of accredited registrars at www.icann.org /registrars/accredited-list.html. We are also a primary supplier of hosted messaging services, where we provide access to and host email and personal information management, such as calendar and contacts for enterprises and for certain services, consumers. Customers of our messaging services pay on a subscription basis for the services they choose to access. Our goal is to strengthen our position as a supplier of Internet services to Service Providers. We believe that the market for Internet services will continue to grow and that our existing relationships provide us with an opportunity to expand our platform. We intend to expand the services we offer and increase our Service Provider relationships. Our goal is to implement this strategy while maintaining our high level of customer service and support. Our Service Providers typically provide their customers, the end-users of the Internet, with a critical component to enable the customer’s use of the Internet. The Service Providers have a very high level of interaction with such end-users, who are typically individuals and businesses ranging from small businesses to large corporations. When a Service Provider has secured an end-user as a customer in one area of specialty, it has an opportunity to provide this customer with additional services. We believe that end-users will first contact their current Service Providers when they seek to purchase additional services. Since 1999, we have continued to expand our network of Service Providers and the Internet services we offer. These services currently include domain name registrations, digital certificates, billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions, email and anti-spam services, blogware and website building tools. We plan to continue to introduce additional Internet services in the future. We primarily distribute our services to Service Providers using our open shared reseller system platform, or OpenSRS. OpenSRS provides a back-end infrastructure, complete with interfaces that Service Providers use to provision services, either for their own use or for end-users, while acting as a wholesale distributor. We believe that our wholesale offerings enable our Service Providers to focus on customer acquisition and retention while still being able to enhance per customer revenue by offering additional services along with their core services. Although we primarily provide Internet Services for wholesale distribution by Service Providers, other registrars who do not want to incur the costs and complexities of building and maintaining their domain registration and management systems can utilize our open hosted registrar system platform, or OpenHRS. OpenHRS enables the Service Provider to provide domain registration and other services to their end-users. In addition to generating revenue through the provision of domain registration and other Internet services, we generate advertising and other revenue through our website, www.tucows.com, which has the primary function of providing software for download. Advertising revenue is generated from third-party 3 advertisers and from software developers who rely on us as an important source of distribution for our shareware, freeware and online services. Software developers use the Author Resource Center, or ARC, to submit their products for inclusion in our libraries and to purchase promotional placement of their software in the library categories, as well as other promotional services on a cost-per-click or flat rate basis. The libraries are available to end-users around the world via our own Internet facilities and via a global network of Internet service companies who elect to mirror our software libraries locally. We also generate revenue from companies who contract with us to provide them with co-branded content. Recent Developments On January 3, 2006 we completed the acquisition of substantially all of Critical Path’s hosted messaging assets for up to $8.0 million in cash plus the assumption of some related contractual liabilities. We will maintain the existing hosted messaging data centers in Denver, Colorado and London, England. We believe that with this acquisition we become a leader in hosted email, especially hosted email for Internet service providers and web hosting companies and we also anticipate cost savings synergies in network and data center operations, technical support, account management and recruiting. Industry Background and Analysis The Internet has emerged as a global medium that enables millions of people to share information, communicate and conduct business electronically. We believe that the growth in the number of Internet users combined with the Internet’s extensive reach has created a powerful channel for conducting commerce, as well as marketing, gathering, consuming and sharing information and ideas. We believe that this growth in Internet use provides significant opportunities for organizations of all types and sizes to improve operational efficiencies and generate additional revenues through the use of Internet channels. We believe that the Internet has also given rise to additional competitive pressures due to shifting supplier and consumer demands, which have become increasingly diversified. We believe that these pressures are leading organizations to adopt new Internet-based business models, requiring the use of a wide array of applications and services including: · access to the Internet; · domain registration; · high performance web hosting and server hosting facilities; · email and other advanced messaging or groupware applications; and · electronic commerce enabling applications. Providers of these applications and services are often Service Providers, which typically operate as: · ISPs, which provide end-users with access to the Internet through dial-up, high speed and dedicated subscriber line hook-ups; · web hosting companies, which offer corporate customers and individual users hosting of their website on a commercial web server at a unique domain registered to the customer; · system and network management providers, which offer high-end server hosting facilities for web based businesses and corporations; · domain registration Service Providers, which facilitate domain registrations; · telecommunications companies and cable Service Providers; 4 · value added Service Providers of internal and external networks, which are typically consultants that assist companies with systems management, application procurement, installation, maintenance and training; and · web designers that offer services helping businesses and organizations create and maintain websites. Service Providers typically provide their customers, the end-users of the Internet, with a critical component to enable their use of the Internet and have a very high level of interaction with such end-user. End-users consist of individuals and businesses ranging from small businesses to large corporations. When a Service Provider has secured an end-user as a customer in one area of specialty, it has an opportunity to provide this customer with additional services. We believe that, in most cases, end-users will contact Service Providers as they are a trusted resource when they seek to learn more about, or to purchase additional, applications and services. We believe that providing a range of applications and services to end-users creates stronger relationships between Service Providers and end-users, increases the costs of switching to another Service Provider and leads to increased revenues per end-user. As the Internet continues to grow and the number of available applications and services and the complexity of these services continue to increase, we anticipate that the value of our role as distributor will increase. We believe Service Providers will focus primarily on customer acquisition and retention and will find it difficult to continue to identify new profitable services, negotiate supply arrangements and integrate new services into their businesses while maintaining their existing business processes and services. We accordingly believe that our role in the industry will grow in importance as Service Providers seek to outsource these tasks. Domain Registration Background The Internet domain registration system is comprised of two principal components: the registry and the registrars. The registry maintains the database that contains the domains registered in the TLDs and their corresponding Internet protocol addresses. Registrars act as intermediaries between the registry and end user individuals and businesses, referred to as registrants, seeking to register domains. The domain system is organized according to industry custom by levels, so that, for example, in the domain mybrand.com, .com is the TLD and mybrand is the second level domain. TLDs are classified as either generic, known as gTLDs, or country code, known as ccTLDs. The gTLDs that we currently support are .com, .net, .org, .info, .biz and .name and the ccTLD’s are .at (Austria), .be (Belgium), .ca (Canada), .cc (Cocos (Keeling) Islands), .ch (Switzerland), .cn (China), .de (Germany), .fr (France), .it (Italy), .nl (Netherlands), .uk (United Kingdom), .tv (Tuvalu) and .us (United States). There are approximately 240 different ccTLDs. The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority maintains a list of these ccTLDs at www.iana.org/cctld/cctld-whois.htm. Each registry for country code domains is responsible for maintaining and operating its own database of registered domains. Some country code domains are unrestricted and allow anyone to register their domains on a first-come, first served basis. Others require that prospective registrants have a local presence in the country to be able to register domains in that country. While there have been movements directed at creating uniform domain registration rules and registrar administration guidelines, there is at present no international uniformity. This lack of uniformity increases the complexity and cost associated with being a registrar of the various ccTLDs. We choose which ccTLD’s we will support based on the economic evaluation of market potential and expected costs. From January 1993 until April 1999, Network Solutions, which was acquired by VeriSign, Inc. in June 2000, was the sole entity authorized by the U.S. government to act as both registrar and registry for domains in the .com, .net and .org gTLDs. In October 1998, the U.S. Department of Commerce called for the formation of a non-profit corporation to oversee the management of the .com, .net and .org domains, 5 and in November 1998 appointed ICANN in this regard. VeriSign, Inc. continues to act as the sole registry for the .com and .net domains, maintaining the files in the shared registration system for these domains and the directory databases and listing these domains and their numerical Internet protocol addresses. We became an ICANN accredited registrar in 1999 and in January 2000, began operation as an ICANN accredited registrar and began to register domains in the ..com, .net and .org domains. We were in the first group of 34 registrars accredited by ICANN in 1999 and have subsequently established ourselves as a leading wholesale registrar. As of February 28, 2006, there were 574 ICANN accredited registrars. ICANN’s authority is based upon voluntary compliance by registrants with its consensus policies. While these policies do not constitute law in the United States or elsewhere, they have a significant influence on the domain registration system. Registration of Domains The only way to register and start using a domain name is to use the services of a registrar. To make entries into a registry database, the registrar must undergo a certification process, overseen and regulated by ICANN. Typically the registration, renewal or transfer of a domain is accomplished by using an online submission form provided by a registrar. If the application to register, renew or transfer the domain to a registrar is accepted, the end-user pays a fee to the registrar for the right to use the domain for a set period ranging between one and ten years. ICANN maintains its accreditation requirements which can be found at www.icann.org/registrars/accreditation.htm. The registrar in turn pays a fee to the registry for each registered domain. When an end-user wants to register a domain, it must first ascertain if the domain is available and then, using the services of an accredited registrar, have that name reserved for its use in the registry. The process of renewing a domain name is much like registering a new one and is accomplished by the registrant paying the renewal fee that covers a specific period of time. If a registrant wants to transfer its domain from one accredited registrar to another, this can be done at any time prior to the domain’s expiration by the registrant following the transfer process of the gaining registrar’s transfer policy and paying the requisite fee for a set period, which is generally one year. Growth in Domain Registrations Because end-users typically require a domain name to receive, enhance or better personalize their use of new e-business applications and services, it is critical that Service Providers provide domain name registration and related support services. We believe that, despite volatility induced by the economic recession, the market for domain name registrations will continue to trend upward gradually because of the continuing growth of and convergence to the Internet and the development of the domain name registration industry, including the introduction of new gTLDs. We believe that there are three primary growth drivers for the domain registration industry: · Trend toward online presence. We believe that businesses and individuals are increasing their use of the Internet in their operations and daily lives. Ever-smaller businesses are seeing the need for an Internet presence as it is often the first place potential customers go for information. Individuals are setting up blogs, personal webpages and personal email addresses as well as demanding other Internet services that rely on domain names for personalization and ease of navigation. · Economic expansion. We believe that the need for domain registrations is positively correlated with growth in the economy. This is consistent with the observation that new businesses and new product and service introductions require domain registrations. 6 · International adoption. There are still many international markets in which Internet use is not as prevalent as in North America. We expect that many of these markets will continue to increase their Internet adoption to North American levels and beyond. Such growth would lead to a greater demand for domain registrations. Our Strategy Our strategy is to strengthen our position as a supplier of Internet services to Service Providers. We intend to: · expand Service Provider relationships; · take advantage of the greater growth rates in international Internet markets; · increase Service Providers’ customer retention and customer acquisition; · expand the services we offer by broadening the network of supplier relationships; · extend the range of current services; and · continue to pursue acquisitions in a disciplined manner. Expand Service Provider relationships We intend to continue to leverage our knowledge of the Service Provider market and our brand and reputation to increase our market share and penetration. Our approach to attract Service Providers as customers varies depending on the size and geographic location of the Service Provider. We have account management resources dedicated to large Service Providers, European Service Providers and small Service Providers. As we broaden the services sold, we solidify our relationships which in turn furthers our knowledge and brand strengths. Take advantage of greater growth rates in international Internet markets We believe that our business model facilitates an enhanced ability to take advantage of the significantly greater growth rates present in international Internet markets. By enabling and empowering Service Providers and relying on them to deal with the problems located close to the end-users, we remove the need to manage items like local language, local currency, different taxation policies, different national legislation and local methods of payments. This allows us to grow internationally through local Service Providers by supplying them with various services that they can then tailor to local circumstances. Increase Service Providers’ customer retention and customer acquisition We believe that by enhancing the usability and reliability of our systems and services, we can improve the end-user experience and create greater usage and end-user satisfaction, thereby positively impacting service renewal rates and new user referrals. By focusing on reducing the complexity of Internet services, we believe we can increase usage. By improving reliability, we believe that we can reduce end-user frustration and take advantage of the high costs and inertia associated with changing ISPs. Expand the services we offer by broadening the network of supplier relationships Our network of suppliers provides access to new services and service developments. We will continue to broaden our network of suppliers and technology alliances. Our current relationships include GeoTrust, Inc., or GeoTrust, for digital certificates, Critical Path, Inc. for a software license used in our email service, Gozoom.com, Inc. and Panda Software International S.L. for services and software used in our email defense service and Akmin Technologies PVT Ltd. for website building tools. We expect to 7 continue to rely on existing and new suppliers to provide new services and service developments, allowing us to maintain our focus on tailoring such services for Service Providers. We expect to continue to enter into additional supplier relationships as we expand the number of services we offers. Extend the range of current services We currently provide Service Providers with domain registration services, email and anti-spam services, digital certificates, billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions, blogware and website building tools. We intend to extend each of these services as follows: · Developing domain registration services for new TLDs, both gTLDs and ccTLDs and enhancing our opportunities in the market for expiring domain names, the market for secondary domain names and the market for tools that assist in the management of domain names; · Extending our billing and provisioning software to integrate it with new products and services and offer similar functionality in a hosted model. We believe that this tighter integration will increase the ability and efficiency of our Service Providers in adding new Internet services; and · Continuing the evolution of our ancillary services. A key component of our long-term strategy is the development and sale of our ancillary services. Revenues from ancillary services have increased to 8% of net revenues for the 2005 fiscal year, from 5% of net revenues for the 2004 fiscal year and 2% of net revenues for the 2003 fiscal year. Continue to pursue acquisitions in a disciplined manner In April 2004, we acquired and integrated Boardtown Corporation, a provider of billing, provisioning and customer-care software solutions. The acquisition enhanced our existing Service Provider solutions and added a significant number of Service Provider relationships. In January 2006, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of Critical Path’s hosted messaging assets, including the customer base, hosted messaging communications infrastructure, and other related assets. We expect the acquisition to significantly expand our presence in the email market. We intend to continue to pursue selective strategic acquisitions that will enhance the functionality of our service offerings and broaden and deepen our Service Provider relationships. Our Solution for Service Providers Our solution gives Service Providers the ability to offer a broad range of Internet services to their customers. Typically, offering a broad range of disparate services results in complex business processes for the purposes of: · tracking of administration, billing and usage; · integrating information and functionality from multiple sources; · delivering content, applications and services in a robust, scalable and efficient manner; · managing the life-cycle of the subscriber and the service from provisioning through renewal and transfer; · ensuring system reliability and redundancy; and · providing cost savings over in-house solutions by relieving Service Providers of the expense of acquiring and maintaining hardware and software and the associated administrative burden. Our strategy is to simplify these complex business processes by providing a solution in which the above needs are addressed outright or in which tools are provided to help the Service Provider manage these 8 complexities. We believe that we have been successful in this strategy and that our Service Providers are better equipped to: · focus on their customer acquisition and retention strategies thereby allowing them to provide a higher level of customer service and performance; · enhance revenue per customer through offering additional services; · avoid the costs and complexities of building in-house systems; and · avoid regulatory and other complexity in their businesses through the outsourcing of business processes. We believe that we can remain successful in simplifying complex business processes because our solution has been developed with the following key criteria in mind: · Reliable. Our software platform has been in operation for many years, is constantly being improved and has a demonstrated performance capability; · Scalable. We enable our Service Providers to offer domains and other easily integrated applications and services to their end-users and believe that this allows Service Providers to benefit from not having to engage in or concern themselves with capacity planning; · Ease of Use. We allow our Service Providers to administer a variety of applications and services from easy to use interfaces; · Robust and Flexible. We enable our Service Providers to offer a variety of applications and services from a range of suppliers and give Service Providers the ability to brand these applications and services themselves; · Ease of Innovation and Integration. We develop our platform recognizing the heterogeneity of Service Providers and their need for customized solutions. We provide multiple methods of interacting with our platform and encourage and support our Service Providers in integrating with their own in-house systems; and · Superior Customer Service. We seek to provide superior customer service by anticipating the technical requirements and business objectives. We also provide our Service Providers with technical advice to help them understand how our applications and services can be customized for their particular needs. Barriers to Entry and Our Competitive Position We believe that one of the most difficult aspects of successfully launching an Internet application or service is new user adoption and that the trusted business relationship, coupled with the technical integration we have with our Service Providers, will continue to make us a desirable partner for Internet service suppliers seeking to establish or expand their user base. We have invested over ten years in building deep relationships with our Service Providers and in building a brand intended to stand for trust and reliability. We believe that one of our key competitive advantages is our relationship and reputation with our Service Providers. We believe that our understanding of the Service Provider business has enabled us to earn their trust. This trust and understanding has contributed to our success in establishing and maintaining our network of Service Providers. We believe that our accumulated goodwill is not easily replicated and will continue to give the company a strong competitive advantage over the long term. 9 Competitive Conditions The market for Internet services, including domain registrations, messaging, billing software and services, digital certificates, publishing, software and content distribution, and other Internet applications and services, is rapidly evolving and is highly competitive. Our competition may be divided into groups consisting of: · domain registrars who market domains primarily on a retail basis, such as Network Solutions, Register.com, Yahoo and GoDaddy, and who compete with Service Providers for end-users; · other domain registrars, such as eNom, Inc. and Melbourne IT, who market wholesale private label offerings to Service Providers; · providers of billing software and services to telecommunications companies and Service Providers, such as Portal Software and Rodopi; · providers of messaging services to Service Providers, such as Google, Microsoft, Postini and Everyone.net ; · providers of publishing services to Service Providers, such as Google, Xanga, Microsoft, Six Apart and CM4All; and · providers of software downloads and other open source related content, such as CNET. We expect to continue to experience significant competition from the companies identified above, and, as our business develops and we compete in an increasingly broad range of Internet services, we expect to encounter competition from other providers of Internet services. Service Providers, Internet portals, web hosting companies, email hosting companies, outsourced application companies, country code registries and major telecommunication firms may broaden their service offerings to include outsourced domain registrations and other Internet applications and service solutions. We believe that the primary competitive factors in our domain registration and downloadable software distribution businesses are: · providing superior customer service by anticipating the technical requirements and business objectives of the Service Providers and providing them with technical advice to help them understand how our applications and services can be customized for their particular needs; · providing cost savings over in-house solutions by relieving Service Providers of the expense of acquiring and maintaining hardware and software and the associated administrative burden; · providing greater functionality and access to Internet applications and services, which in turn enables Service Providers to choose the application that best suit their end-users’ needs; · enabling Service Providers to better manage their relationships with their end-users; · facilitating scalability through an infrastructure designed to support millions of transactions across millions of end-users; and · our technology and infrastructure, consisting of advanced software and hardware that allows Service Providers to provide Internet services to their customers without having to make substantial investments in their own software or hardware. Although we encounter pricing pressure in many markets in which we compete, we believe the effects of that pressure are mitigated by the fact that we deliver Service Providers a high degree of value through our business support practices and financial and technical integration. We believe our status as a trusted supplier also allows us to mitigate the effects of this type of competition. We believe that the long-term 10 relationships we have made with many Service Providers results in a sense of certainty that would not be available to the Service Provider through a competitor. Customer Service We seek to provide superior customer service by anticipating the technical requirements and business objectives of our Service Providers, such as customizable management of renewal processes, streamlining the process of adding additional services and providing solutions for dealing with the added administrative complexity of offering multiple services. We also provide our Service Providers with technical advice to help them understand how our applications and services can be customized for their particular needs. Service Providers may contact us by email or through our toll-free telephone number. An extensive library of frequently asked questions and answers is made available to all Service Providers through our website. Our customer service team consists of trained technicians who draw on expertise throughout the organization to provide support in many languages and for an array of unique issues. These staff members handle general inquiries, investigate the status of orders and payments and answer technical questions about our applications and services. In response to customer inquiries, customer service representatives monitor site and network operations, refer complex problems to technical teams for resolution and make recommendations for future enhancements. We pride ourselves on having developed a culture of customer service that pervades our entire organization. This can be attributed to the fact that we have always encouraged and provided easy means for our customers and resellers to communicate with anyone in the organization, as well as with each other. These communication avenues are monitored and utilized not only by support functions but also by our management. We also use our own online discussion forums to communicate with our Service Providers. These forums have been used to discuss: · suggestions or feedback on new features; · marketing promotions; and · domain policy positions. These forums are open to the public, which increases the level of scrutiny we face and the standard to which we are held. We believe that this, in turn, produces credibility with Service Providers. Problems that are raised are often solved by other Service Providers who have faced similar situations. This greatly increases the speed and breadth of responses the Service Provider is able to receive in a cost effective manner. Customers For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, no single customer represented more than 10% of revenues. Products and Services We offer our services to our network of Service Providers and directly to end-users. Our principal applications and services fall under two broad headings: Domain Registration and Ancillary Services, and Advertising and Other Services. 11 Domain Registration and Ancillary Services Domain registration services Domain Registration Services encompass all of our offerings related to the provisioning of domains, including the markets for expiring and secondary domain names. We offer wholesale and retail domain registration services for numerous gTLDs and ccTLDs. Key components of our domain registration services include: · Wholesale Domain Services. Tucows’ wholesale service is designed to enable Service Providers to register domains for their end-users using Tucows gTLD and ccTLD accreditations. Pricing is based on a per domain, per year charge. Tucows imposes no restrictions on the prices charged by Service Providers to their customers and offers this service through its OpenSRS Platform. · Hosted Registrar Services. Hosted Registrar Services allow ICANN accredited registrars to use Tucows’ technical systems to process domain registrations with their accreditation. Hosted registrar services enable registrars to use a proven system without incurring the costs of building their own technical infrastructure. Hosted registrar services also include professional service elements, including custom development, data management and systems administration. This service is offered through Tucows’ OpenHRS platform and is offered as a fee-based service. · Domain Direct. Tucows offers retail domain registration through Domain Direct at www.domaindirect.com. These services are designed to enable consumers to establish an Internet presence using Domain Direct’s control panel, which includes tools for domain registration, personalized email addresses, domain forwarding, domain marketing, blogware and web hosting that allow customers to register, develop, use and manage their websites. Ancillary Services Ancillary services include email and anti-spam services, digital certificates, billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions, blogware and website building tools. We offer these services to our Service Providers on a private label basis so that they may use their brands in selling Internet services to their end-users. · Messaging Email. Our email service is a hosted service that provides email boxes that support post office protocol, or POP, Internet message access protocol, or IMAP, simple mail transfer protocol, or SMTP, and web-mail as methods of access and communication. Web-mail includes support for groupware functionality including shared calendaring, tasks, notes and email boxes. An email forwarding service is also provided. · Anti-Spam. Our email defense anti-spam service is a Tucows hosted service that provides spam, virus, content and attachment filtering, as well as Denial of Service, or DoS, attack prevention. · Digital Certificate Delivery. Digital certificates are required to facilitate any online transaction or exchange of sensitive information in a secure fashion. We have a partnership with GeoTrust to provide Service Providers with the ability to sell an array of digital certificates, also known as Secure Socket Layer, or SSL, certificates. Digital certificates consist of a public key and a private key. The public key is used to encrypt information and the private key is used to decipher it, a process that is known as an SSL handshake. Digital certificates are issued using identity verification procedures and, in combination with the trusted third-party infrastructure standard in the Internet industry, are used to enable secure electronic transactions and to otherwise verify online identities. This occurs when a browser points to a secured domain; an SSL handshake authenticates the server and the client and establishes an encryption method and a unique session key. They can then begin a secure session that guarantees message privacy and message integrity. 12 · Billing Services, Billing, Provisioning and Customer Care Solutions. · Platypus Billing System, or Platypus, is a complete turnkey back-office solution for ISPs, Application Service Providers, or ASPs, web hosting companies and other companies that provide Internet services. Platypus handles billing, service provisioning, and customer account management. Web tools are provided so that customers can manage their customer accounts online. · Wombat Help Desk System is a Platypus integrated Help Desk solution that provides total accountability for customer care needs. Wombat automatically routes, tracks and maintains customer care email and phone calls for optimal service desk performance. · The Tucows Printing Service is an outsourced statement printing service offering Platypus Billing System customers’ statement printing, folding, stuffing and postage metering services. · Blogware. Blogware is a proprietary hosted weblog content management system that makes it easy for end users to share information, photographs and other interactive content online via their website. We believe that Blogware is the only hosted blog or weblog content management system that was built exclusively for Service Providers and that takes into account their specific needs, including the ability to brand the service, to create and administer trials of the service and to manage and administer the service across their customer bases. We manage the entire Blogware service and provisioning infrastructure, as well as ongoing application development on an outsourced basis. · Website Builder. Our website builder tool enables end-users to create a website using an easy to use template based tool. We manage the infrastructure allowing Service Providers to present a private label product to their end-user customers without the development effort or overhead expenses that would be required to design and manage such a service on their own. Advertising and Other Services Advertising and other services include revenues attributable to our content business. We generate revenue directly from users of its website through selling advertising through the following channels: · Direct advertising on our website. Our website, www.tucows.com, is designed to provide customers with fast access to our extensive libraries of software and digital content and to provide them with help and information on using the Internet. We provide users with software for numerous platforms including Windows, Macintosh, Linux, personal digital assistants, mobile/cellular and online services. The main libraries contain a total of over 40,000 titles. Our staff checks each title for spyware and viruses. We provide a public forum where individuals can review or comment on the software products. Most titles are rated on a scale of one to five, five being the highest rating. Revenue is produced from our website through advertising and co-branding agreements. We do not generally enter into barter advertising agreements. · Pay-per-click for content and search. We offer pay-per-click advertising on both the pages of our website and search result pages. When a user performs a search of our site, the user is presented with paid search results along with results directly from our website. Every time a user selects one of the paid-search results, we are paid a portion of the revenue collected by the search result provider. The search result provider is paid on a per-click basis by the advertiser. · Our Author Resource Center. ARC provides software developers who rely on us as a primary source of distribution with the tools to manage and promote their software on our website through advertising services, including keyword search placements, banners, promotional placements and premium data services to our large, technologically sophisticated audience. The advertising sales 13 business model is based on both the cost charged to send a message to 1,000 receivers, or a cost-per-thousand, variable, and the cost charged when a user clicks on the advertisement, or a cost-per-click through, variable. Technology and Infrastructure We employ advanced software and hardware, combining internal expertise with industry standard technology to create a proprietary platform for the offering of our services. Our provisioning infrastructure is a technical infrastructure that allows Service Providers to provide Internet services to their customers without having to make substantial investments in their own software or hardware. In 2000, our provisioning infrastructure was used primarily to provide domain registration services. Since then, a number of significant enhancements and architectural changes have been made to the infrastructure and its capabilities have been extended to the provisioning of additional Internet services as previously discussed. The key components of our provisioning infrastructure are as follows: · Our OpenSRS Platform. This platform acts as an interface between Service Providers, the Service Providers’ customers, third-party suppliers and our administration. Service Providers use the platform to provision services and recall and edit data with respect to already-provisioned services. To the extent permitted by the Service Providers’ business and technical infrastructure, the Service Providers’ customers can use the platform directly to manage their Internet services in an automated fashion. This includes the ability to add, delete, change and transfer domains. Third-party suppliers may have their services added to our OpenSRS platform at our discretion and only after a business evaluation has taken place. Our administrative staff use the OpenSRS platform to support Service Providers and their customers by accessing and, if appropriate, editing data about the provisioned services. · Service Providers and end-users communicate with OpenSRS by any of the following means: · Web Interfaces. The OpenSRS Platform has web interfaces that allow Service Providers, end-users and our employees to access the OpenSRS platform from anywhere, at any time, in a secure fashion. The web interfaces, while unbranded, cannot be branded or otherwise customized. · Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs. The OpenSRS Platform has been designed to be rich in APIs. The APIs allow Service Providers to write software or web-based applications that perform at least substantially the same functions as would otherwise be available through the web interfaces, and often times with greater functionality. This in essence is how Service Providers “brand” or “private-label” our services. The existence of APIs empower Service Providers to write their own applications and fully integrate the provisioning of our services with the other services they provide on their website. APIs also enable the Service Providers to create a web interface for their customers in which the management of our services is seamlessly integrated with the management of services that they provide. · Open Source Client Code. For Service Providers that do not want to write their own software or web-based applications using the APIs, we provide a set of written instructions, or Client Code, that Service Providers can install on their web servers to enable them to provision our services to their customers. Use of the Client Code is an efficient means of provisioning our services and the fact that it is open source gives the Service Provider flexibility in integrating and customizing the environment in which the 14 services are provisioned and managed. Use of either the APIs or the Client Code for the provisioning of services allows the Service Provider to fully preserve their brand. · Our OpenHRS Platform. We provide a hosted application to registrars that allows them to register domains using their own accreditation. This hosted application has been built using OpenSRS technology and is desirable for registrars because it relieves them of the burden of developing and maintaining their own domain registration infrastructure. Further, the OpenSRS infrastructure, upon which OpenHRS has been built, has already been tested through use in high demand, real-world environments. This is a fee-based service, whereas OpenSRS is a transaction-based service. Downloadable Software Distribution Network Architecture We manage an extensive network for distributing software and other digital content using proprietary software and standard hardware. The key elements of the accelerated content delivery network include central servers that we own and servers owned by Service Providers located at their facilities. Bandwidth and update times are minimized by utilizing mirroring software that sends compressed and incremental updates to local Service Providers and affiliates, which results in Service Providers’ mirror sites being able to keep their libraries more current and provide customers with fresher content. Files are distributed among the mirror sites based on several proprietary algorithms that allow us to manage and host more files than could be maintained at any one location. U.S. Government Regulation of Domain Names Under a 1993 cooperative agreement with the U.S. Department of Commerce, Network Solutions was authorized to act as the sole registry and sole registrar for domain names in the.com,.net and.org, top level domains. In October 1998, the Department of Commerce amended the Network Solutions cooperative agreement to call for the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to oversee the management of, and create policies about, domain names in the.com,.net and.org top level domains. The Department of Commerce also proposed that additional registrars be authorized to register domain names in these domains based upon the idea that competitive registrars would benefit consumers and businesses. ICANN was recognized as this not-for-profit corporation by the Department of Commerce in November 1998. ICANN’s authority is based upon voluntary compliance with its consensus policies. While these policies do not constitute law in the United States or elsewhere, they have a significant influence on the domain name registration system. On December 1, 1999, ICANN’s first substantive policy, the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy, became effective. This dispute resolution policy was created to address the problem of cybersquatting, or registering the trademark of another as a domain name with the intent to wrongfully profit from the goodwill in that name created by the trademark holder. As ICANN creates additional policies governing the domain name registration system, we will be affected by these policies. Additionally, there have been ongoing legislative developments and judicial decisions concerning trademark infringement claims, unfair competition claims, and dispute resolution policies relating to the registration of domain names. To help protect ourselves from liability in the face of these ongoing legal developments, we have taken the following precautions: · Our standard registration agreement requires that each registrant indemnify, defend and hold us harmless for any dispute arising from the registration or use of a domain name registered in that person’s name; and · Since December 1, 1999, we have required our Service Providers to ensure that all registrants are bound to the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy as approved by ICANN. 15 Despite these precautions, we cannot assure you that our indemnity and dispute resolution policies will be sufficient to protect us against claims asserted by various third parties, including claims of trademark infringement and unfair competition. New laws or regulations concerning domain names and domain name registrars may be adopted at any time. Our responses to uncertainty in the industry or new regulations could increase our costs or prevent us from delivering our domain name registration services over the Internet, which could delay growth in demand for our services and limit the growth of our revenues. New and existing laws may cover issues such as: · pricing controls; · the creation of additional generic top level domains and country code domains; · consumer protection; · cross-border domain name registrations; · trademark, copyright and patent infringement; · domain name dispute resolution; and · other claims based on the nature of content of domain names and domain name registration. In November 1999, the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, or the ACPA, was enacted by the United States government. This law seeks to curtail a practice commonly known in the domain name registration industry as cybersquatting. A cybersquatter is generally defined in the ACPA as one who registers a domain name that is identical or similar to another party’s trademark, or the name of another living person, with the bad faith intent to profit from use of the domain name. The ACPA states that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain name for another person absent a showing of the registrar’s bad faith intent to profit from the use of the domain name. Registrars may be held liable, however, if they do not comply promptly with procedural provisions of the ACPA. For example, if there is litigation involving a domain name, the registrar is required to deposit a certificate representing the domain name registration with the court. If we are held liable under the ACPA, any liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual Property We believe that we are well positioned in the content services and domain registration markets in part due to our highly recognized “Tucows” brand. Our success and ability to compete are dependent on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our brand name and technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property rights. These legal protections cannot guarantee protection of our intellectual property. Despite precautions, third parties could obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving, and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. We have registered the Tucows trademark in the United States, Canada and the European Union and will seek to register additional service marks and trademarks as appropriate. We seek to limit disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring all employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality, non-disclosure and work-for-hire agreements. All of our employees are required to execute confidentiality and non-use agreements, which provide that any rights they may have in copyrightable works or patentable technologies accrue to us. Before entering into discussions with potential content providers and network partners about our business 16 and technologies, we require these parties to enter into a non-disclosure agreement. If these discussions result in a license or other business relationship, we also generally require that the agreement containing the parties’ rights and obligations include provisions for the protection of its intellectual property rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are or will be made available. We also expect to license proprietary rights such as trademarks or copyrighted material to network partners during planned national and international expansion. Seasonality During the summer months and certain other times of the year, such as major holidays, Internet usage often declines. As a result, our websites may experience reduced user traffic. For example, our experience shows that new user registrations and site usage declines during the summer months and around the year-end holidays. Seasonality may also affect advertising and affiliate performance that could affect the performance of its websites. These seasonal effects could cause fluctuations in our financial results as well as our performance statistics reported and measured by leading Internet audience measurement services such as Media Metrix, Inc. Trend Towards Outsourcing While Service Providers are capitalizing on the growth in Internet usage and the demand for new e-business applications and services, they also face significant competition from numerous other Service Providers offering similar applications and services. This has led to a greater focus on core competencies, as Service Providers are increasingly seeking to outsource non-core applications and services that they provide to their end-users. Outsourcing enables these Service Providers to focus better on their customer acquisition and retention efforts by eliminating the need to own, develop and support non-core applications in-house. Employees We believe that one of our strengths is the quality and dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters professionalism, excellence, diversity and cooperation among our employees. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 160 full time employees. None of our employees are currently represented by a labor union. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth specific information regarding our executive officers as of March 16, 2006. Name Age Position(s) Elliot Noss 43 President and Chief Executive Officer Michael Cooperman 54 Chief Financial Officer David Woroch 43 Vice President, Sales Alain Chesnais 49 Vice President, Product Development Judith Fields 45 Vice President, Operations Carla Goertz 48 Vice President, Human Resources Elliot Noss has served as our president and chief executive officer since May 1999 and served as vice president of corporate services for Tucows Interactive Limited, which was acquired by Tucows in May 1999, from April 1997 to May 1999. 17 Michael Cooperman has served as our chief financial officer since January 2000. From October 1997 to September 1999, Mr. Cooperman was the chief executive officer of Archer Enterprise Systems Inc., a developer of sales force automation software. David Woroch has served as our vice president, sales since July 2001. From March 2000 to July 2001, Mr. Woroch served as our director of sales for North America. Before joining us, Mr. Woroch spent 13 years at IBM Canada in a variety of roles including sales, marketing, finance and strategic planning. Alain Chesnais has served as our vice president, product development since July 2005. Before joining us, Mr . Chesnais held the position of director of software development programs at ATI Technologies Inc from April 2004 to July 2005. He held the position of vice president of engineering at TrueSpectra during the period of June 2000 to November 2003 and from May 1993 to June 2000; he held the position of director of engineering at Alias/Wavefront/TDI. Judith Fields has served as our vice president, operations since July 2005. Prior to her promotion in July 2005 Ms. Fields held the position as our director of business systems since 2000. Prior to joining us Ms. Fields work for Loblaws Companies Limited from 1985 until 1999 were she held a variety of senior roles in both Information Services and Business Systems Development. Carla Goertz has served as our vice president, human resources since August 2005. Before joining us Ms. Goertz held the position of director human resources at TechData Canada from April 2004 to July 2005. From November 2001 to July 2003 she held the position of vice president of human resources and administration for Castek Inc. Prior to joining Castek Inc. she held the role of vice president human resources at Systems Xcellence Inc. The executive officers are elected or appointed by our board of directors to serve until the election or appointment and qualification of their successors or their earlier death, resignation or removal. Investor Information Our web site address is www.tucowsinc.com. We make available through our web site, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information on the web site listed above is not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document. We were incorporated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in November 1992. Our executive offices are located at 96 Mowat Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M6K 3M1. Our telephone number is (416) 535-0123. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. Some of the following risks relate principally to our business and the industry and statutory and regulatory environment in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our stock. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 18 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position and may be forced to reduce our prices because of strong competition from other competitive registrars. Before the introduction of competition into the domain registration industry in 1999, Network Solutions LLC, or Network Solutions, was the only entity authorized by the U.S. government to serve as the registrar for domains in the .com, .net and .org domains. This position allowed Network Solutions to develop a substantial customer base, which gives it advantages in securing customer renewals and in developing and marketing ancillary products and services. In addition to Network Solutions, we face significant competition from other existing registrars and the continued introduction of new registrars in the domain registration industry. As of February 28, 2006, ICANN had accredited 574 competitive registrars, including our company, to register domains in one or more of the generic top-level domains, or gTLD’s, though not all of these accredited registrars are operational. The continued introduction of competitive registrars and Service Providers into the domain registration industry and the rapid growth of some competitive registrars and Service Providers who have already entered the industry may make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share. Some of these registrars may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, particularly in international markets, or greater resources than us. We expect that competition will increase in the near term and that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for domain registrations continues to be extremely competitive as participants strive to protect their current market share and improve their competitive position. VeriSign Global Registry Services, or VeriSign, currently charges registrars who use its shared registration system $6 for each registration, which most registrars, including our company, pass on to their customers. Some of our competitors offer registration services at a price level minimally above the registry and the ICANN fees for each domain registered in the .com and .net registry. Other competitors have reduced and may continue to reduce their pricing for domain registrations both for short-term promotions and on a permanent basis. Our competitors have also offered domain registrations free in a bundle of other products, deriving their revenues from other products and services. In addition, some of these competitors have experienced a significant increase in their registrations, suggesting that customers are becoming more price sensitive. As our business model is premised upon selling multiple services through our Service Providers, we have competed aggressively to attract new clients and retain existing customers. As a result of these actions, our average selling prices have fallen and we may be required, by marketplace factors or otherwise, to reduce, perhaps significantly, the prices we charge for our core domain registration and related products and services. The decline in our average selling price has partially offset the impact of increased transaction volume on our revenue and profitability. The likelihood of further declines in our selling price will increase if our competitors who charge these reduced fees are able to maintain customer service comparable to ours. We may face continued pricing pressure in order to remain competitive, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain registrations will incrementally increase, volatility in the market could result in our customers turning to other registrars, thereby impairing growth in the number of domains under our management and our ability to sell multiple services to such customers. Since our strategy is to expand the services we provide our customers, if we are unable to maintain our domain registrations, our ability to expand our business may be adversely effected. Each registry and the ICANN regulatory body impose a charge upon the registrar for the administration of each domain registration. If these fees increase, this may have an impact upon our profits. Each registry typically imposes a fee in association with the registration of each domain. For example, at present, the VeriSign registry charges a $6 fee. ICANN charges a $0.25 fee for each domain name 19 registered in the TLDs that fall within its purview. We have no control over these agencies and cannot predict when they may increase their respective fees. Any increase in these fees must either be included in the prices we charge to our Service Providers or it must be imposed as a surcharge. If we absorb such cost increases or if surcharges act as a deterrent to registration, we may find that our profits are adversely impacted by these third-party fees. If we are unable to improve our sales of existing TLDs, improve our renewal rate or generate alternate revenue streams, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Although the overall number of registrations in each new gTLD that has been launched has been significantly lower than the number of .com registrations, the introduction of new gTLDs and ccTLDs have contributed to our revenues. We expect to launch the mobi gTLD and the .eu CCTLD in the near future but have no way to assess the contribution that any such incremental sales will generate. However, in order to grow our revenues, we need to increase sales of existing TLDs, renewals, transfers or other products and services in lieu of the opportunities that were presented by the new gTLDs in 2001 and early 2002. Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the market for existing TLDs does not develop, if additional new top-level domains are not introduced or if substantial numbers of our customers turn to other registrars for their registration needs. We rely on our network of Service Providers to renew their domain registrations through us and to distribute our applications and services, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships, our revenues will decline. The growth of our business depends on, among other things, our Service Providers’ renewal of their customers’ domain registrations through us. Service Providers may choose to renew their domains with other registrars or their registrants may choose not to renew and pay for renewal of their domains. If Service Providers decide, for any reason, not to renew their registrations through us, our revenues from domain registrations will decrease. We believe that companies operating on the Internet are facing a period of consolidation. In addition, some of our Service Providers may decide to seek ICANN accreditation. Both of these situations could reduce the number of our active Service Providers, in which case our revenues may suffer. If any of our competitors merge with one another, they will present a stronger combined force in the market and may attract the business of both existing and prospective Service Providers. Service Providers may opt to build their own technical systems and seek ICANN accreditation in order that they may process domain applications themselves. If a number of our customers decide to pursue this option, our sales will decrease. Our failure to secure agreements with country code registries or our subsequent failure to comply with the regulations of the country code registries could cause customers to seek a registrar that offers these services. The country code top-level domain, or ccTLD, registries require registrars to comply with specific regulations. Many of these regulations vary from ccTLD to ccTLD. If we fail to comply with the regulations imposed by ccTLD registries, these registries will likely prohibit us from registering or continuing to register domains in their ccTLD. Any failure on our part to offer domain registrations in a significant number of ccTLDs or in a popular ccTLD would cause us to lose a competitive advantage and could cause Service Providers to elect to take their business to a registrar that does offer these services. 20 Our standard domain registration agreement may not be enforceable, which could subject us to liability. We operate on a global basis and all of our Service Providers must execute our standard domain registration agreement as part of the process of registering a domain. This agreement contains provisions intended to limit our potential liability arising from our registration of domains on behalf of our Service Providers and their customers, including liability resulting from our failure to register or maintain domains. If a domestic, foreign or international court were to find that the registration agreement is unenforceable, we could be subject to liability. If we cannot obtain or develop additional applications and services that are appealing to our customers, we may remain dependent on domain registrations as a primary source of revenue and our net revenues may fall below anticipated levels. A key part of our long-term strategy is to diversify our revenue base by offering our Service Providers additional value-added products and services that address their evolving business needs. Although we have recently experienced increased sales for new products and services such as email and web certificates, our efforts to date have not resulted in substantial diversification. We cannot be sure that we will be able to license new applications and services at a commercially viable cost or at all, or that we will be able to cost-effectively develop the applications in-house. If we cannot obtain or develop these applications on a cost-effective basis and cannot expand the range of our service offerings, sales of our services may suffer as Service Providers turn to alternate providers that are able to more fully supply their business needs. As part of our diversification strategy, we recently acquired the hosted messaging business of a leading email services providers. The acquisition expands our presence in the email market but also increases our exposure in this volatile business. As we integrate the new business into our existing operations, a number of factors are likely to contribute to fluctuations in our operating results; these include: · the demand for outsourced messaging services; · our ability to attract and retain customers and provide customer satisfaction; · the ability to upgrade, develop and maintain our systems and infrastructure and to effectively respond to the rapid technological changes in the messaging market; · the budgeting and payment cycles of our existing and potential customers; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of the messaging business; and · the introduction of new or enhanced services by competitors. In order to succeed in the hosted messaging business, our email product must remain competitive. We believe that some of the competitive factors affecting the market for hosted messaging services include: · breadth of platform features and functionality of our offering and the sophistication and innovation of our competitors; · scalability, reliability, performance and ease of expansion and upgrade; · ease of integration with customers’ existing systems; and · flexibility to enable customers to manage certain aspects of their systems and leverage outsourced services in other cases when resources , costs and time to market reasons favor an outsourced offering. We believe competition will continue to be strong and further increase as our market attracts new competition, current competitors aggressively pursue customers, increase the sophistication of their 21 offerings and as new participants enter the market. Many of our current and potential customers have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in the business and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Any delay in our development and delivery of new services or enhancement of existing services would allow our competitors additional time to improve their product offerings and provide time for new competition to develop and market messaging services. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could cause our financial results to decline. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our customers, our revenue may decline. We obtain revenues by distributing applications and services through our network of Service Providers. We also rely on our Service Providers to market, promote and sell our services. Our ability to increase revenues in the future will depend significantly on our ability to maintain our customer network, to sell more services through existing Service Providers and to develop our relationships with existing Service Providers by providing customer and sales support and additional products. Service Providers have no obligations to distribute our applications and services and may stop doing so at any time. If we are not able to maintain our relationships with Service Providers, our ability to distribute our applications and services will be harmed, and our revenue may decline. With respect to our hosted messaging product, we rely on a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenues. The loss of one or several of these major customers, whether through termination of agreement, acquisition or bankruptcy, could have a significant impact on our revenues. Our agreements with our email customers typically have terms of one to three years often with automatic one-year renewals and can be terminated without cause upon certain notice periods that vary among our agreements and range from a period of 30 to 120 days notice. We believe that part of our growth will be derived from Service Providers in international markets and may suffer if Internet usage does not continue to grow globally. We believe that a major source of growth for Internet-based companies will come from individuals and businesses outside the United States where Internet access and use is less prevalent. A substantial number of our Service Providers are currently based outside the United States and we plan to grow our business in other countries. If Internet use in these jurisdictions does not increase as anticipated, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. We currently license many third party technologies and may need to license further technologies which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments We currently license certain technologies from third parties and incorporate them into certain of our products and services including email, anti-spam, anti-virus and web site publishing tools. The internet services market is evolving and we may need to license additional technologies to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we cannot license necessary solutions, we may have to devote our resources to development of such technologies which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments overall. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate licensed technology into our services. These third party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks related to the integration of new technology and potential intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, an inability to obtain needed licenses could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. Any delays in services or integration problems could hinder our ability to attract and retain customers and cause our business and operating results to suffer. 22 We depend on third parties for free and low cost web-based content. We access and provide web-based content for certain of our content notification and other sites. We access this content mainly by searching selected websites and then providing links to relevant content from the individual sites. Typically, we pay no fee, or a nominal fee, for accessing web-based content in this manner. Our ability to continue to use web-based content in this manner without cost, or for nominal fees, is fundamental to our goal of providing free, or low cost, content notification sites. If the market changes and owners begin to charge more significant fees for accessing material from their websites, we will incur additional expenses to provide the service or we may decide to no longer provide the service. Our advertising revenues may be subject to fluctuations. We believe that Internet advertising spending, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic cycles and during any calendar year, with spending being weighted towards the end of the year to reflect trends in the retail industry. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and typically decreases when economic conditions are not favorable. A decrease in demand for Internet advertising could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire companies or make investments in, or enter into licensing arrangements with, other companies with technologies that are complementary to our business and these acquisitions or arrangements could disrupt our business and dilute your holdings in our company. We may acquire companies or the rights to technologies in the future. Entering into these types of arrangements entails many risks, any of which could materially harm our business, including: · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · failure to effectively integrate the acquired technology or company into our business; · the loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; and · assumption of significant liabilities of the acquired company. · In addition, your holdings in our company will be diluted if we issue equity securities in connection with any acquisition or arrangement. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. Our business depends on a strong brand. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that the brand identity we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the “Tucows” brand is critical to expanding our customer base. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader providing high quality products and services, which we may not do successfully. To date, we have engaged in relatively little direct brand 23 promotion activities. This enhances the risk that we may not successfully implement brand enhancement efforts in the future. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights, the value of those rights could be diminished. We rely upon copyright, trade secret and trademark law, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements and work-for-hire agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot ensure that our efforts to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation by third parties, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States and Canada. We have licensed, and may in the future license, some of our trademarks and other proprietary rights to others. Third parties may also reproduce or use our intellectual property rights without seeking a license and thus benefit from our technology without paying for it. Third parties could also independently develop technology, processes or other intellectual property that are similar to or superior to those used by us. Actions by licensees, misappropriation of the intellectual property rights or independent development by others of similar or superior technology might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or damage our reputation. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, including copying the look, feel and functionality of our website could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without us receiving any compensation. The law relating to the use of and ownership in intellectual property on the Internet is currently unsettled and may expose us to unforeseen liabilities. There have been ongoing legislative developments and judicial decisions concerning trademark infringement claims, unfair competition claims and dispute resolution policies relating to the registration of domains. To help protect ourselves from liability in the face of these ongoing legal developments, we have taken the following precautions: Our standard registration agreement requires that each registrant indemnify, defend and hold us harmless for any dispute arising from the registration or use of a domain registered in that person’s name; and Since December 1, 1999, we have required our Service Providers to ensure that all registrants are bound to the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy as approved by ICANN. Despite these precautions, we cannot assure you that our indemnity and dispute resolution policies will be sufficient to protect us against claims asserted by various third parties, including claims of trademark infringement and unfair competition. New laws or regulations concerning domains and registrars may be adopted at any time. Our responses to uncertainty in the industry or new regulations could increase our costs or prevent us from delivering our domain registration services over the Internet, which could delay growth in demand for our services and limit the growth of our revenues. New and existing laws may cover issues such as: · pricing controls; · the creation of additional generic top level domains and country code domains; · consumer protection; · cross-border domain registrations; 24 · trademark, copyright and patent infringement; · domain dispute resolution; and · the nature or content of domains and domain registration. An example of legislation passed in response to novel intellectual property concerns created by the Internet is the Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act or ACPA enacted by the United States government in November 1999. This law seeks to curtail a practice commonly known in the domain registration industry as cybersquatting. A cybersquatter is generally defined in the ACPA as one who registers a domain that is identical or similar to another party’s trademark, or the name of another living person, with the bad faith intent to profit from use of the domain. The ACPA states that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain for another person absent a showing of the registrar’s bad faith intent to profit from the use of the domain. Registrars may be held liable, however, if they do not comply promptly with procedural provisions of the ACPA. For example, if there is litigation involving a domain, the registrar is required to deposit a certificate representing the domain registration with the court. If we are held liable under the ACPA, any liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once any infringement is detected, disputes concerning the ownership or rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from operating the business, and may result in us losing significant rights and our ability to operate all or a portion of our business. Claims of infringement of intellectual property or other rights of third parties against us could result in substantial costs. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights against us concerning past, current or future technologies. Content obtained from third parties and distributed over the Internet by us may result in liability for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, product or service liability and dissemination of computer viruses or other disruptive problems. We may also be subject to claims from third parties asserting trademark infringement, unfair competition and violation of publicity and privacy rights relating specifically to domains. These claims may include claims under the Anti-cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, or ACPA, which was enacted in the United States to curtail the registration of a domain that is identical or similar to another party’s trademark or the name of a living person with the bad faith intent to profit from use of the domain. These claims and any related litigation could result in significant costs of defense, liability for damages and diversion of management’s time and attention. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making these claims. If a successful claim of infringement is brought against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, we may have to limit or discontinue the business operations which used the infringing technology. We rely on technologies licensed from other parties. These third-party technology licenses may infringe on the proprietary rights of others and may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss of this technology could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, which could increase our costs and make our products and services less attractive to customers. 25 The law relating to the liability of online services companies for data and content carried on or disseminated through their networks is currently unsettled and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. It is possible that claims could be made against online services companies under U.S., Canadian or foreign law for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on data or content disseminated through their networks, even if a user independently originated this data or content. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability upon Internet service companies have been filed in U.S. and foreign courts. While the United States has passed laws protecting ISPs from liability for actions by independent users in limited circumstances, this protection may not apply in any particular case at issue. Our ability to monitor, censor or otherwise restrict the types of data or content distributed through our network is limited. Failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations in particular jurisdictions could result in fines, penalties or the suspension or termination of our services in these jurisdictions. Our insurance may not be adequate to compensate or may not cover us at all in the event we incur liability for damages due to data and content carried on or disseminated through our network. Any costs not covered by insurance that are incurred as a result of this liability or alleged liability, including any damages awarded and costs of litigation, could harm our business and prospects. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect us. Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our operating expenses is paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. We do not account for these instruments as hedges in our consolidated financial statements. If we do not maintain a low rate of credit card chargebacks, we will face the prospect of financial penalties and could lose our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenues originates from online credit card transactions. Under current credit card industry practices, we are liable for fraudulent and disputed credit card transactions because we do not obtain the cardholder’s signature at the time of the transaction, even though the financial institution issuing the credit card may have authorized the transaction. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contract with our processor, we are required to reimburse our processor for such penalties. Our current level of fraud protection, based on our fraudulent and disputed credit card transaction history, is within the guidelines established by the credit card associations. However, we face the risk that one or more credit card associations may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Forecasting our tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. We are subject to income and other taxes in a number of jurisdictions and our tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. We must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance that may be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Although we believe that our 26 estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our current and future tax liabilities could be adversely affected by: · international income tax authorities, including the Canada Revenue Agency and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, challenging the validity of our arm’s-length related party transfer pricing policies or the validity of our contemporaneous documentation. Currently, we are undergoing a transfer pricing audit by the Canada Revenue Agency with respect to our 2000 and 2001 taxation years. · changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; or · changes in tax laws or the interpretations of such laws. While we believe we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on the price of our shares of common stock. We are currently in the process of planning for the evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal control systems in order to permit our management to be in a position to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as currently required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). While we believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective and are currently planning for timely completion of such documentation, testing and evaluation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley by December 31, 2007. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007 (or if our auditors are unable to assert that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, it could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. In addition, although the SEC’s Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies (Advisory Committee”) has published for public comment an exposure draft of their final report and proposed recommendations in which reduced requirements under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley for non-accelerated filers such as ourselves are contemplated, no changes to the current requirements have been formally proposed nor is there any assurance that the Commission will propose or adopt such changes for any companies including non-accelerated filers. Should the Commission not adopt the changes recommended by the Advisory Committee, we anticipate that our costs relating to Sarbanes-Oxley will increase and become significant in future periods. New accounting pronouncements may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, FASB, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts are constantly discussing proposals designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The effect of the pronouncements of FASB and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to account for revenues and/or expenses in a different manner than at present. In particular, in fiscal 2006, FASB will require us to expense the fair value of stock options, resulting in increased expenses in our income statement and a reduction of our net income and earnings per share. The impact of applying a fair value method of 27 accounting for stock options on a pro-forma basis in accordance with SFAS No. 123, the impact of which may be different than SFAS No. 123R, is disclosed in Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements. We could suffer uninsured losses. Although we maintain general liability insurance, claims could exceed the coverage obtained or might not be covered by our insurance. While we typically obtain representations from our technology and content providers and contractual partners concerning the ownership of licensed technology and informational content and obtain indemnification to cover any breach of these representations, we still may not receive accurate representations or adequate compensation for any breach of these representations. We may have to pay a substantial amount of money for claims that are not covered by insurance or indemnification or for claims where the existing scope or adequacy of insurance or indemnification is disputed or insufficient. Current world events and economic trends may have a negative impact on our sales. Our sales are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending. As a result, our sales may decline as a result of factors beyond our control, such as war and terrorism. These events include ongoing armed conflicts and retaliatory terrorist attacks. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the global markets and economy. If any of the foregoing events occur, our sales may decline and our business may be adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected by a wide variety of factors, including: · our ability to maintain revenue growth at current levels or anticipate a decline in revenue from any of our services; · our ability to identify and develop new technologies or services and to commercialize those technologies into new services in a timely manner; · the mix of our services sold during the quarter or year; · our ability to make appropriate decisions which will position us to achieve further growth; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors and other competitive pressures on selling prices; · our ability to identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel, and to achieve targeted productivity levels; · market acceptance of Internet services generally and of new and enhanced versions of our services in particular; · our ability to establish and maintain a competitive advantage; · the continued development of our global distribution channel and our ability to compete in multiple countries successfully as part of our sales and marketing strategy; · the number and significance of service enhancements and new service and technology announcements by our competitors; 28 · our ability to identify, develop, deliver, and introduce in a timely manner new and enhanced versions of our current service offerings that anticipate market demand and address customer needs; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates and issues relating to the conversion to the Canadian dollar; · foreign, federal or state regulation affecting our business; · our ability to continue to attract users to our website; · our ability to attract software developers to participate in our Author Resource Center; · our ability to continue to attract advertisers to place content on our website · interruptions in our services; · seasonality of the markets and businesses of our customers; · news relating to our industry as a whole; · our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights; · our ability to manage internet fraud and information theft; and · changes in methods used for the accounting of stock options. Our operating expenses may increase. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends that are more difficult to predict in periods of economic uncertainty. We intend to continue our efforts to control discretionary spending; however, we will continue to selectively incur expenditures in areas that we believe will strengthen our position in the marketplace. If we do not meet revenue goals, we may not be able to meet reduced operating expense levels and our operating results will suffer. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below our expectations and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our shares of common stock may fall. Risks Related To the Internet and Our Technology Our business could be materially harmed if the administration and operation of the Internet no longer rely upon the existing domain system. The domain registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without the use of the existing domain system. Some of our competitors have begun registering domains with extensions that rely on such alternate systems. These competitors are not subject to ICANN accreditation requirements and restrictions. Other competitors have attempted to introduce naming systems that use keywords rather than traditional domains. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 If Internet usage does not grow or if the Internet does not continue to expand as a medium for commerce, our business may suffer. Our success depends upon the continued development and acceptance of the Internet as a widely used medium for commerce and communication. Rapid growth in the uses of, and interest in, the Internet is a relatively recent phenomenon and its continued growth cannot be assured. A number of factors could prevent continued growth, development and acceptance, including: · the unwillingness of companies and consumers to shift their purchasing from traditional vendors to online vendors; · the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it, and its performance and reliability may decline as usage grows; · security and authentication issues may create concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information; and · privacy concerns, including those related to the ability of websites to gather user information without the user’s knowledge or consent, may impact consumers’ willingness to interact online. Any of these issues could slow the growth of the Internet, which could limit our growth and revenues. We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological changes in the industry, and our attempts to respond may require significant capital expenditures. The Internet and electronic commerce are characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new applications and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could make our applications, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of applications and services in the Internet application and services industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our applications and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability: · to develop and license new applications, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and · to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of applications and services and other proprietary technology involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt our internally developed technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. Updating technology internally and licensing new technology from third parties may require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures. We could experience system failures and capacity constraints which would cause interruptions in our services and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to maintain our computer hardware and software and telecommunications equipment in working order and to reasonably protect them from error and interruption is critical to our success. Failures and interruptions of, and the slowing of response times on, these systems could be caused by: · an increase in the traffic on our websites that outstrips our system capacity; · natural disasters, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events; 30 · computer viruses and electronic break-ins; · errors, defects and bugs in software; · failure or inability to upgrade technical infrastructure to handle unexpected surges in customer levels and increases in customers’ usage of bandwidth; · failure of third-party bandwidth providers to maintain the services they supply to us; and · failure of infrastructure providers such as electricity providers. Substantial or persistent system failures could result in: · loss of customers; · loss of or delay in revenue; and · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance. Our systems face security risks, and any compromise of the security of these systems could result in liability for damages and in lost customers. Our security systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers or others, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate customer or proprietary information or cause interruptions in Internet operations. Internet and online service providers have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, interruptions in service because of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others. We may need to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or alleviate problems caused by breaches. Unauthorized persons may be able to circumvent the measures that are implemented in the future. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to users accessing our websites and the web pages that deliver our content services. Repeated or substantial interruptions could result in the loss of customers and reduced revenues. Users might circumvent the measures we take to protect customers’ private and confidential information, such as credit card numbers. Security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and possible liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims and for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. We may also incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission in the United States and state agencies have investigated various Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. The federal government has enacted legislation protecting the privacy of consumers’ nonpublic personal information. We cannot guarantee that our current information-collection procedures and disclosure policies will be found to be in compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with existing laws, including those of foreign countries, the adoption of new laws or regulations regarding the use of personal information that require us to change the way we conduct business or an investigation of our privacy practices, could increase the costs of operating our business. Lack of consumer confidence in the security of on-line financial transactions could negatively impact our business. Consumers may not adopt online services if they are not confident that financial transactions over the Internet can be undertaken securely and confidentially. Although there is security technology currently available for online transactions, many Internet users may not use the Internet for commercial transactions because of security concerns. These concerns may be heightened by well-publicized security breaches of 31 any Internet-related service, which could deter consumers from using our services provided by our solution. If consumers do not have confidence in the security for online services transactions that the current technologies provide, our revenue will not increase and may decrease. We may be accused of intellectual property infringement of the technology we have employed to support both our back end platform and the products and services we offer to and through our Service Providers and may be sued for damages caused by actual use of the platforms or products and services and we may be required to pay substantial damage awards. We seek to ensure that we have licensed or otherwise secured the necessary rights to use and offer for use all intellectual property relating to our platforms and the services we offer Service Providers through the platforms. Despite our efforts, we may be sued by third parties claiming rights in and to the technology we employ or by third parties who claim to have suffered as a result of any use, or inability to use, the platforms, products and services. If we are sued, defense of any such claims may require the resources of both our time and money. If a third-party is successful in its assertions, we may be required to pay damages that may have a material impact on our financial resources. Governmental and Regulatory Risks Governmental and regulatory policies or claims concerning the domain registration system, and industry reactions to those policies or claims, may cause instability in the industry and disrupt our domain registration business. Before 1999, Network Solutions managed the domain registration system for the .com, .net and .org domains on an exclusive basis under a cooperative agreement with the U.S. government. In November 1998, the U.S. Department of Commerce authorized ICANN to oversee key aspects of the domain registration system. ICANN has been subject to strict scrutiny by the public and by the government in the United States. For example, in the United States, Congress has held hearings to evaluate ICANN’s selection process for new top level domains. In addition, ICANN faces significant questions regarding its financial viability and efficacy as a private sector entity. ICANN may continue to evolve both its long term structure and mission to address perceived shortcomings such as a lack of accountability to the public and a failure to maintain a diverse representation of interests on its board of directors. We continue to face the risks that: · the U.S. or any other government may reassess its decision to introduce competition into, or ICANN’s role in overseeing, the domain registration market; · the Internet community or the U.S. Department of Commerce or U.S. Congress may refuse to recognize ICANN’s authority or support its policies, which could create instability in the domain registration system; · ICANN may lose any one of the several claims pending against it in both the U.S. and international courts, in which case its credibility may suffer and its policies may be discredited; · ICANN may attempt to impose additional fees on registrars if it fails to obtain funding sufficient to run its operations; · the terms of the registrar accreditation process could change in ways that are disadvantageous to us; and · international regulatory bodies, such as the International Telecommunications Union or the European Union, may gain increased influence over the management and regulation of the domain registration system, leading to increased regulation in areas such as taxation and privacy. 32 In addition, ICANN has established policies and practices for itself and the companies it accredits to act as domain registries and registrars. Some of ICANN’s policies and practices, and the policies and practices adopted by registries and registrars, could be found to conflict with the laws of one or more jurisdictions. If any of these events occur, they could create instability in the domain registration system. These events could also disrupt or suspend portions of our domain registration solution, which would result in reduced revenue. We may be subject to government regulation that may be costly and may interfere with our ability to conduct business. Although transmission of our websites primarily originates in Canada and the United States, the Internet is global in nature. Governments of foreign countries might try to regulate our transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. Because of the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws or regulations in the future concerning commercial online services and the Internet, with respect to: · user privacy; · children; · copyrights and other intellectual property rights and infringement; · domains; · pricing; · content regulation; · defamation; · taxation; and · the characteristics and quality of products and services. Laws and regulations directly applicable to online commerce or Internet communications are becoming more prevalent. Laws and regulations such as those listed above or others, if enacted, could expose us to substantial liability and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Risks Related to our Stock We do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, our earnings, if any, will be retained for use in the business and that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock. Declaration of dividends on our common stock will depend upon, among other things, future earnings, our operating and financial condition, our capital requirements and general business conditions. We are controlled by a limited number of principal shareholders, which may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2005, our four principal shareholders beneficially own approximately 34% of our shares of common stock. These shareholders could control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. 33 Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership. Our share price is volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares of common stock when they want to, at an attractive price. Our share price has varied recently and the price of our common stock may decrease in the future, regardless of our operating performance. Investors may be unable to resell their common stock following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to this volatility. The following factors may contribute to this volatility: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · interruptions in our services; · seasonality of the markets and businesses of our customers; · announcements of new technologies or new services by our company or our competitors; · our ability to accurately select appropriate business models and strategies; · the impact that terrorist acts or military action may have on global economic conditions and the impact that this will have on our customers or business; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may view as comparable to us; · news relating to our industry as a whole; and · news relating to trends in our markets. The stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particularr, including our company, has experienced extreme volatility. This volatility often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may cause the price of our shares of common stock to drop, regardless of our performance. Future sales of shares of common stock by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of shares of common stock in the public market, the market price of the shares of common stock could fall. The perception among investors that these sales will occur could also produce this effect. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 