ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Some, but not all, of the important risks which could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements made by us include the following: · We might fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the opening of Tandy Leather retail stores or we might be unable to obtain sufficient new locations on acceptable terms to meet our growth plans. Further, we might fail to hire and train competent managers to oversee the stores opened. · Continued weakness in the economy in the United States, as well as abroad, may cause our sales to decrease or not to increase or adversely affect the prices charged for our products. Also, hostilities, terrorism or other events could worsen this condition. · Negative trends in general consumer-spending levels, including the impact of the availability and level of consumer debt and levels of consumer confidence could adversely affect our sales. · Political considerations here and abroad could disrupt our sources of supplies from abroad or affect the prices we pay for goods. · Continued involvement by the United States in war and other military operations in the Middle East and other areas abroad could disrupt international trade and affect our inventory sources. · As a result of the on-going threat of terrorist attacks on the United States, consumer buying habits could change and decrease our sales. · Livestock diseases such as mad cow could reduce the availability of hides and leathers or increase their cost. Also, the prices of hides and leathers fluctuate in normal times, and these fluctuations can affect us. · If, for whatever reason, the costs of our raw materials and inventory increase, we may not be able to pass those costs on to our customers. · Other factors could cause either fluctuations in buying patterns or possible negative trends in the craft and western retail markets. In addition, our customers may change their preferences to products other than ours, or they may not accept new products as we introduce them. · Any change in the commercial banking environment may affect us and our ability to borrow capital as needed. Other uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, may occur as well. 5 ITEM 