ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks to Our Industry Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current global financial crisis. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also small businesses and other retailers. The United States and global economies have suffered from a prolonged recession for the past several years and a result consumer spending has remained depressed, and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. Specialty retail, and retail in general, is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of non-essential products tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. During periods of economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by continued downward trends or uncertainly in the United States or global economies. Increases in the price of leather and other items we sell or a reduction in availability of those products could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for leather, metals, and other products. The cost of these items may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, supply conditions, transportation costs, government regulation, economic climates, political considerations, and other unpredictable factors. Leather prices world-wide have increase significantly in the past year and the outlook for future prices is uncertain. Increases in these costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the gross margin level we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease in our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers or reduce costs in other areas. Further, continued involvement by the United States in war and other military operations in the Middle East and other areas abroad could disrupt international trade and affect our inventory sources. Finally, livestock diseases such as mad cow could reduce the availability of hides and leathers or increase their cost. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image. Tandy Leather is one of the most recognized brand names in our industry. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of that brand. If we are unable to provide quality products and exceptional customer service to our customers, including education, which Tandy has traditionally been known for, our brand name may be impaired. Many specialty retailers have experienced periods of growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced solid sales and earnings growth recently. We anticipate that our future growth rate will depend on a number of factors, including the strength and protection of our brand name, the market success of our current and future products, the success of our growth strategies, and our ability to manage our future growth. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our growth effectively, optimizing our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures in order to maximize profitability. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including fluctuations in the cost of the leathers and metal products that we purchase and changes in consumer spending patterns and acceptance of our products. These factors may prohibit us from passing cost increases on to customers which could cause our gross margin to decline. If our product costs increase and our sale prices do not, our future operating results could be adversely affected unless we are able to offset such gross margin declines with comparable reductions in operating costs. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our planned international expansion, which could impair the value of our brand, harm our business and negatively affect our results of operation. We plan to grow our net sales and net earnings from our International segment by opening store in various international markets. As we expand outside of North America, we may incur significant costs relating to starting up, maintaining and expanding foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to obtaining locations for stores, hiring personnel, and travel expenses. We may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully and our growth may be limited, unless we are able to identify desirable sites for store locations, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hired, train and retain competent store personnel; manage inventory effectively to meet the needs and demands of customers on a timely basis, manage foreign currency risk effectively, and achieve acceptable operating margins from the new stores. We cannot be sure that we can successfully open new stores or that our new stores will be profitable. As we continue to increase our international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control, such as political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries in which our suppliers or customers are located; local business practices that do not conform to legal or ethical guidelines; restrictions or regulations relating to imports or exports; additional or increased customs duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; social, legal or economic instability in the foreign markets in which we do business, which could influence our ability to sell our products in these markets; and restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. Despite any precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Our efforts to establish and protect our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation or counterfeiting of our products by others, which may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand name. Further, we could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the use of our intellectual property by others. Even if we are successful in these actions, the costs we incur could have a material adverse affect on us. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a large portion of our products from countries other than the United States. The cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the applicable currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international business will sell products. Furthermore, the majority of our international sales are generally derived from sales in foreign countries. This revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting purposes, could be materially affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results of operations and our ability to generate revenue growth. Other uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, may occur as well. 5 Table of Contents 