Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business, including catastrophe, market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our business. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may cause our financial results to be volatile. Because we underwrite property catastrophe reinsurance and have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, our management expects that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from catastrophic events is likely to cause substantial volatility in our financial results. In addition, because catastrophes are an inherent risk of our business, a major event or series of events can be expected to occur from time to time and to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. Increases in the 27 Table of Contents values and concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Our property catastrophe reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters. We currently seek to limit our loss exposure principally by offering most of our products on an excess-of-loss basis (a basis which limits our ultimate exposure per contract and permits us to determine and monitor our aggregate loss exposure), adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance accepted in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudent underwriting of each program written. We cannot be certain that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. There can be no assurance that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner we intended. Disputes relating to coverage or choice of legal forum may arise. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgements, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgement, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our management’s expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity and statutory surplus or requiring us to raise additional capital on disadvantageous terms. Establishing reserves for catastrophes is an inherently uncertain process and, if we are required to greatly increase our loss reserves, our operating results may significantly decrease. Under GAAP, IPCRe is not permitted to establish loss reserves with respect to our property catastrophe reinsurance until an event occurs which may give rise to a claim. As a result, we can only reserve for known losses, and not for expected future losses. Claims arising from future catastrophic events can be expected to require the establishment of substantial reserves from time to time. The establishment of appropriate reserves for catastrophes is an inherently uncertain process. Reserve estimates by property catastrophe reinsurers, such as us, may be inherently less reliable than the reserve estimates of reinsurers in other lines of business. Our own historical loss experience by itself may be inadequate for estimating reserves, and we utilize various loss forecasting models and industry loss data as well as industry experience of our management for this purpose. Loss reserves represent our estimates, at a given point in time, of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of losses incurred (including IBNR losses and RBNE amounts) and these estimates are regularly reviewed and updated, using the most current information available to management. Consequently, the ultimate liability for a catastrophic loss is likely to differ from the original estimate. Whenever we determine that any existing loss reserves are inadequate, we are required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction, which could be material, to our operating results in the period in which the deficiency is identified. The establishment of new reserves, or the adjustment of reserves for reported claims, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in any particular period. Unlike the loss reserves of U.S. insurers, our loss reserves are not regularly examined by insurance regulators, although, as a registered Class 4 insurer, we are required to submit an opinion of our approved loss reserve specialist with our annual statutory financial return in respect of our losses and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified property and casualty actuary, must be approved by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Uncertainty related to estimated losses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may further materially impact our financial results. As of December 31, 2006, we estimated that the ultimate aggregate losses 28 Table of Contents from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma was $1,005 million. The impact of these events may materially increase as our ultimate liability is adjusted. Based upon an analysis of the information available, as of December 31, 2006 we estimated that the ultimate aggregate losses and loss adjustment expenses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, were $1,005 million, compared to $977 million as of December 31, 2005. This estimated amount is based on amounts reported by ceding companies, industry insured loss estimates, output from both industry and proprietary models, including pre-event, modeled exposure data provided to us by client companies, a review of contracts potentially affected by the event, information received from both clients and brokers, and management’s estimates. We have also assumed that underlying policy terms and conditions would be upheld during the loss adjustment process. The unique circumstances and severity of hurricane Katrina, including the extent of flooding and limited access by claims adjusters, introduce additional uncertainty to the normally difficult process of estimating catastrophe losses. This is compounded by the potential for legal and regulatory issues arising regarding the scope of coverage, including causation and coverage issues associated with the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils such as fire, business interruption or riot and civil commotion. We expect that these issues will not be resolved for a considerable period of time and may be influenced by evolving legal and regulatory developments. The impact of losses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma on our net income may exceed the estimate noted above as a result of, among other things, an increase in industry insured loss estimates, the receipt of additional information from clients, the attribution of losses to coverages that for the purpose of our estimates we assumed would not be exposed and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labour and materials, in which case our financial results could be further materially adversely affected. We are rated by A.M. Best and S & P, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing among customers and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of reinsurance companies. IPCRe and IPCRe Europe have an insurer financial strength rating of “A (Excellent; 3rd of 15 categories)” from A.M. Best and are rated “A (Strong; 6th of 18 categories)” for financial strength and counter-party credit by S & P. A.M. Best and S & P ratings reflect their opinions of a reinsurance company’s financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, but are not evaluations directed to investors in our securities and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and S & P, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain those ratings. In November 2005, as a result of the devastation brought by hurricane Katrina and the adverse effect on our financial condition, A.M. Best lowered our rating from A+ to A. Shortly thereafter, S & P also lowered their rating from A+ to A. Both of these ratings were affirmed during 2006. If these ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best and/or S & P, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as ceding companies move to other reinsurers with higher ratings, and a significant downgrade to a rating below A- by A.M. Best or S & P could trigger provisions allowing some cedants to opt to cancel their reinsurance contracts with us. The reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we have experienced, and can expect to experience in the future, periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premiums. Historically, property catastrophe reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary property insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and levels of industry capital which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the property catastrophe reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permits favourable premium levels. These cycles can be significantly affected by changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by 29 Table of Contents insurers. We can expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma have resulted in additional capital being raised by our existing competitors and resulted in capital raising by new competitors, which may moderate premiums and/or premium increases for the reinsurance products we offer. In addition, recent legislative changes in the state of Florida will likely reduce the level of demand for reinsurance for exposures in that state from the general market, which may in turn result in an increased supply of reinsurance capacity in other U.S. geographic areas. If IPC Holdings’ subsidiary, IPCRe, is unable to obtain the necessary credit we may not be able to offer reinsurance in the United States. IPCRe is a registered Bermuda insurance company and is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction in the United States. Because jurisdictions in the United States do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted, IPCRe’s reinsurance contracts with U.S. clients generally require it to post a letter of credit or provide other security to cover loss reserves to reinsureds. Currently IPCRe obtains letters of credit through bilateral facilities with two commercial banks, and a syndicated facility. In turn, IPCRe provides the banks security by giving the banks a lien over certain of IPCRe’s investments in an amount up to 118% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding. This maximum amount available to us under our letter of credit facilities is currently $700 million. If IPCRe were unable to obtain the necessary credit, IPCRe could be limited in its ability to write business for our clients in the United States. Hurricane Katrina or other significant catastrophes may result in political, regulatory or industry initiatives which could adversely affect our business. Hurricanes Katrina or other significant catastrophes may result in political, regulatory or industry initiatives that could adversely affect our business. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict whether hurricane Katrina or any other catastrophes will result in governmental initiatives which affect our business, such initiatives could adversely affect our business by: • Providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets that we target; • Requiring our participation in industry pools or guaranty associations; • Expanding the scope of coverage under existing insurance policies following hurricane Katrina; • Regulating the terms of insurance and/or reinsurance policies; or • Disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another. The recent legislative changes in Florida may significantly impact the insurance and reinsurance markets covering risks in that state. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability. IPC Holdings is a holding company, and consequently, it is dependent on IPCRe’s and IPCUSL’s payments of cash dividends or making of loans. IPC Holdings is a holding company and conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. Its cash flows are otherwise limited to distributions from IPCRe and IPCUSL by way of dividends or loans. We will rely on cash dividends or loans from IPCRe to pay cash dividends, if any, to our shareholders. The payment of dividends by IPCRe to us is limited under Bermuda law and regulations, including Bermuda insurance law. Under the Insurance Act, IPCRe is required to maintain a minimum solvency margin and a minimum liquidity ratio and is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends if to do so would cause IPCRe to fail to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio. Under the Insurance Act, IPCRe is prohibited from paying dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) unless it files with the Bermuda Monetary Authority at least seven days before payment of such dividend an affidavit stating that the declaration of such dividends has not caused it to fail to meet its minimum solvency margin 30 Table of Contents and minimum liquidity ratio. The Insurance Act also prohibits IPCRe from declaring or paying dividends without the approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority if IPCRe failed to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of the previous financial year. In addition, IPCRe is prohibited under the Insurance Act from reducing its opening total statutory capital by more than 15% without the approval of the Authority. The maximum dividend payable by IPCRe in accordance with the foregoing restrictions as of January 1, 2007 was approximately $495.4 million. Our $500 million credit facility, which we have entered into on April 13, 2006, also imposes limits on the ability of IPC Holdings’ subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, Bermuda corporate law prohibits a company from declaring or paying a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (i) the Company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (ii) the realizable value of the Company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities, its issued share capital and its share premium accounts. Changes in the regulatory scheme under which we operate could result in material adverse effects on our operations. IPCRe is a registered Class 4 Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Among other things, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority require IPCRe to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments it may hold, prescribe solvency standards that it must meet, limit transfers of ownership of its shares, and to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of IPCRe to write new business or, as indicated above, distribute funds to IPC Holdings. Neither IPC Holdings nor IPCRe is registered or licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction in the United States; a substantial portion of IPCRe’s premiums, however, come from, and are expected to continue to come from, ceding insurers in the United States. The insurance laws of each state in the United States regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdiction by foreign insurers, such as IPCRe. IPCRe conducts its business through its offices in Bermuda and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance activities, in the United States. Accordingly, IPCRe does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States. However we cannot be certain, that inquiries or challenges to IPCRe’s insurance activities will not be raised in the future. IPCRe believes that its manner of conducting business through its offices in Bermuda has not materially adversely affected its operations to date. However we cannot be certain, that IPCRe’s location, regulatory status or restrictions on its activities resulting therefrom will not adversely affect its ability to conduct its business in the future. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions including the United States, various states within the United States, the U.K. and elsewhere. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate alien reinsurers. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing law or regulation on our operations, such changes could have a material adverse effect on us or the insurance industry in general. In some respects, the Bermuda statutes and regulations applicable to us are less restrictive than those that would be applicable to us were we subject to the insurance laws of any state in the United States. No assurances can be given that if we were to become subject to any such laws of the United States or any state thereof at any time in the future, we would be in compliance with such laws. We are dependent on the business provided to us by reinsurance brokers, and we may be exposed to liability for brokers’ failure to make payments to clients for their claims. We market our reinsurance products virtually exclusively through reinsurance brokers. The reinsurance brokerage industry generally, and our sources of business specifically, are concentrated. Marsh & McLennan Companies and affiliates accounted for approximately 30%, and our four main brokers (including Marsh & McLennan Companies and affiliates) together accounted for approximately 86%, of our business based on premiums written, excluding reinstatement premiums, in the year ended December 31, 2006. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by such intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on us. 31 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed in respect of claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, for payment over to the ceding insurers. In the event that a broker failed to make such a payment, depending on the jurisdiction, we might remain liable to the client for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions when premiums for such policies are paid to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, such premiums will be deemed to have been paid and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world during the payment process. We are dependent on a small number of key employees. We currently have only 28 full-time employees and depend on a very small number of key employees for the production and servicing of almost all of our business. We rely substantially on our President and Chief Executive Officer, James P. Bryce, and our Senior Vice Presidents, Stephen F. Fallon, and Peter J.A. Cozens. We have not entered into employment contracts with our key employees, and there can be no assurance that we can retain the services of these key employees. Although we believe that we could replace key employees, we can give no assurance as to how long it would take. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent resident’s certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success depends in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. None of our executive officers is a Bermudian or a spouse of a Bermudian, and all such officers, with the exception of our Chief Financial Officer, who holds a permanent resident’s certificate, are working in Bermuda under work permits. These permits expire at various times over the next several years. We have no reason to believe that these permits would not be extended upon request at their respective expirations. However, the Bermuda government has announced a policy that places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to specified exemptions for persons deemed to be key employees and persons holding positions recognized as key occupations where the particular business has a significant physical presence in Bermuda. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of these people if we are unable to renew their work permits, which could significantly and adversely affect our business. A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed income and equity securities that are subject to market volatility. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities and equity securities (including an investment in a fund of hedge funds). As of December 31, 2006, approximately 23% of our total investment portfolio consisted of equity investments. The fair market value of these fixed income and equity assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Therefore, market fluctuations and market volatility affect the value of our investments and could adversely affect the value of our portfolio and our liquidity. Increases in interest rates or fluctuations in currency exchange rates may cause us to experience losses. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under property catastrophe policies, our liquidity needs can be substantial and can arise at any time. The market value of our fixed income investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in prevailing interest rates. We currently do not hedge our investment portfolio against interest rate risk. Accordingly, increases in interest rates during periods when we sell fixed income securities to satisfy liquidity needs may result in losses. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Our operating currency is generally also the U.S. dollar. However, the premiums receivable and losses payable in respect of a significant portion of our business are denominated in currencies of other countries, principally industrial countries. Consequently, we may, from time to time, experience substantial exchange gains and losses that could affect our financial position and results of operations. We currently 32 Table of Contents do not — and as a practical matter cannot — hedge our foreign currency exposure with respect to potential claims until a loss payable in a foreign currency occurs (after which we may purchase a currency hedge in some cases). Risks Related to Our Shares We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgements against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. Certain of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and those of our officers and directors, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have appointed an agent in New York, New York to receive service of process with respect to actions against us arising out of violations of the U.S. federal securities laws in any federal or state court in the United States relating to the transactions covered by our registration statements, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgements of U.S. courts, including judgements predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Bermuda law, which differs from U.S. law, and our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders and holders of other securities under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any willful negligence, willful default, fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves willful negligence, willful default, fraud or dishonesty. There are limitations on the ownership, transfers and voting rights of our shares. Under our bye-laws, our directors are required to decline to register any transfer of any shares that would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member), beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the shares. Similar restrictions apply to our ability to issue or repurchase shares. The directors also may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any shares if they have reason to believe (i) that the transfer may expose us, any of our subsidiaries, any shareholder or any person ceding insurance to us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction or (ii) that registration of the transfer under the U.S. federal securities laws or under any U.S. state securities laws or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and such registration has not been duly effected. These restrictions would apply to a transfer of shares even if the transfer has been executed on the Nasdaq National Market System. A transferor of shares will be deemed to remain the holder of those shares until a transfer of those shares has been registered on our Register of Members. Our bye-laws authorize our board to request information from any holder or prospective acquiror of shares as necessary to give effect to the transfer restrictions referred to above, and may decline to effect any transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our bye-laws provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) holding, directly, indirectly or by attribution, or otherwise beneficially owning common shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding common shares, will have the voting rights attached to its issued common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than approximately 9.9% of such total voting rights. Because of the attribution provisions of the Code, and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this 10%-voting power limitation may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds 10% or more of our common shares. Further, the directors have the authority to request from any shareholder certain information for the 33 Table of Contents purpose of determining whether that shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the directors (or their designee) discretion to disregard all votes attached to that shareholder’s common shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in certain circumstances our bye-laws exclude from the transfer restrictions and the calculation of the 10%-voting power limitation described above any common shares owned by specified banks, brokers, dealers or investment advisers if (i) any such holder is the beneficial owner of those shares solely because it has discretionary authority to vote or dispose of them in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of that holder’s client who is also the beneficial owner of those shares, (ii) the voting rights carried by those shares are not being exercised (and the client is informed that they are not being exercised) by that holder and are being exercised (if they are exercised at all) by that holder’s client, and (iii) that holder would meet the “passive investment intent” test for the filing of Schedule 13-G under Rule 13d-1(b)(1) under the Exchange Act with respect to the entirety of its common share ownership. This bye-law provision thereby permits certain passive investor intermediaries to increase their share ownership above 10% in specified circumstances without being subject to the voting cut back. Shareholders’ investment could be materially adversely affected if we are deemed to be engaged in business in the United States. IPC Holdings and IPCRe are Bermuda companies; neither company files U.S. tax returns. We believe that IPCRe operates in such a manner that it is not subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on certain investment income from U.S. sources), because it does not engage in a trade or business in the United States. However, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States is not provided by the Code or regulations or court decisions, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not contend that IPC Holdings and/or IPCRe is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If IPC Holdings and/or IPCRe were engaged in a trade or business in the United States (and — if IPCRe were to qualify for benefits under the income tax treaty between the United States and Bermuda — such trade or business were attributable to a “permanent establishment” in the United States), IPC Holdings and/or IPCRe would be subject to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on such income remaining after the regular tax, in which case our earnings and shareholders’ investment could be materially adversely affected. Currently, IPCRe pays reinsurance premium excise taxes in the United States (at a rate of 1%). If you acquire more than 10% of our shares, CFC rules may apply to you. Each “United States shareholder” of a CFC who owns shares in the CFC on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income”, even if the subpart F income is not distributed. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign persons, or is considered to own under applicable constructive ownership rules of the Code (including by holding a security convertible into or exchangeable for our common shares), 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a foreign corporation will be considered to be a “United States shareholder”. In general, a foreign insurance company such as IPCRe or IPCRe Europe is treated as a CFC only if such “United States shareholders” collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of its stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during the tax year. Because of the dispersion of IPC Holdings’ share ownership; because of the restrictions on transfer, issuance or repurchase of our shares; because under the Bye-laws no single beneficial shareholder (except for certain passive investor intermediaries) is permitted to exercise as much as 10% of the total combined voting power of IPC Holdings; and because the terms of our Series A Mandatory Convertible preferred shares prohibit any person from converting the shares in a situation where such conversion would cause any person to own (or be treated as owning under applicable provisions of the Code) 10% or more of our common shares, we believe that shareholders of IPC Holdings should not be treated as “United States shareholders” of a CFC for purposes of these rules. There can be no assurance, however, that these rules will not apply to shareholders of IPC Holdings, including as a result of their indirect ownership of the stock of IPC Holdings’ subsidiaries. Accordingly, U.S. persons who might, directly or through 34 Table of Contents attribution, acquire 10% or more of the shares of IPC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. Under certain circumstances, you may be required to pay taxes on your pro-rata share of IPCRe’s or IPCRe Europe’s related party insurance income. If IPCRe’s RPII were to equal or exceed 20% of IPCRe’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, any U.S. person who owns shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would likely be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of IPCRe’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. RPII is defined in Code Section 953(c)(2) as any “insurance income” attributable to policies of insurance or reinsurance with respect to which the person (directly or indirectly) insured is a “United States shareholder” or a “related person” to such a shareholder. A U.S. shareholder’s pro-rata share of IPCRe’s RPII for any taxable year, however, will not exceed its proportionate share of IPCRe’s earnings and profits for the year (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes). The amount of RPII earned by IPCRe (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of IPCRe or any person related to such shareholder, including IPC Holdings) will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of IPCRe’s business and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by IPCRe. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold was met in taxable years from 1994 to 2006, some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, there can be no assurance that IPCRe’s RPII will not equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year. The RPII rules described above also apply to IPCRe Europe. We do not believe that U.S. persons who owned shares were required to include any amount of RPII in income for the taxable years 1998 to 2006 in respect of their indirect ownership of IPCRe Europe, but there can be no assurance that IPCRe Europe’s RPII will not equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and/or that IPCRe Europe will have no earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) in any taxable year. The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of shares because IPC Holdings is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations in this manner or that the applicable regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to the disposition of shares. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda until March 28, 2016. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 