Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks, including the risks described below. Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our common stock. This Item 1A does not describe all risks applicable to our business and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations and the car-haul industry in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully reorganize under Chapter 11, which would likely terminate our future business prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern and result in a liquidation of our assets. On July 31, 2005, Allied Holdings, Inc. and substantially all its subsidiaries filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11. Our ability to successfully reorganize could be hampered by a number of factors including our ability to obtain the required votes of the Creditors Committee to approve and implement a plan of reorganization, our ability to reach agreements with the Teamsters in the United States on modifications to the Master Agreement which we believe are necessary to allow us to emerge from Chapter 11, our ability to comply with our DIP Facility and to obtain suitable additional financing as contemplated by the Fourth Amendment to the DIP Facility, as well as financing to replace the DIP Facility upon the earlier of our emergence from Chapter 11 or the termination of such facility, our ability to motivate and retain key employees and suppliers and the extent to which the reorganization process serves to divert management’s attention away from the daily running of the business. In addition, the adverse publicity regarding our Chapter 11 filing and performance could affect our results going forward. Any adverse effect on our credit standing with our lenders and suppliers could affect the costs of doing business and our negotiating power with lenders and creditors. We can provide no assurance that the reorganization process will be successful. If it is not successful, it is likely that we would be forced to cease operations and liquidate our assets. We currently face a liquidity shortfall that, if not resolved, could jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern and could ultimately require our liquidation. We believe that we may not have sufficient availability under the DIP Facility to meet our working capital needs as soon as July 2006. Further, we believe that between the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and August 2006 we will operate often with minimal availability under the DIP Facility, which could prevent us from meeting our working capital requirements. We are taking steps to reduce or eliminate this projected shortfall. We filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court, which was granted on May 1, 2006, providing us with interim relief from certain wages payable and scheduled cost of living increases for our employees covered by the Master Agreement with the IBT during May and June 2006, as well as requiring mandatory unpaid furloughs to be taken by certain of our non-bargaining salaried employees in North America during May and June of 2006. However, the order granting this motion does not provide for any relief beyond June 2006. We have also implemented other cost-savings initiatives which include freezing all company travel, deferring capital needed for our aging fleet of Rigs and seeking to terminate certain non-bargaining retiree benefits. In addition, we are currently in negotiations with the lenders under our DIP Facility and others to provide us with additional funds for working capital. However, at this time no assurance can be provided that any of our efforts to eliminate this projected liquidity shortfall will be successful or that we will be able to secure additional funds from our current lenders or others. If we are not able to sufficiently reduce our costs to eliminate the projected shortfall or if we are unable to secure additional funding, we may not have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that we will be required to liquidate through the Bankruptcy Court Proceedings. We have a significant amount of debt and substantially all our assets are pledged as collateral for long-term obligations, which could limit our operational flexibility and customer relationships or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, we had consolidated term debt and borrowings under our DIP Facility of approximately $152.0 million and Senior Notes outstanding of $150 million. As more fully discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” additional borrowings may be available under our DIP Facility. However, we are exposed to the risks normally associated with substantial amounts of debt such as: • We may not be able to repay, refinance or extend our debt as it matures. The DIP Facility matures on February 2, 2007; • If we are not able to refinance or extend our debt when it matures, we may not be able to repay the debt; 16 Table of Contents • Substantially all our assets are pledged as collateral for our debt and as a result we are limited in our ability to sell assets to generate additional cash; • Our flexibility in responding to changes in the business and industry may be reduced; • We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns; • We may be unable to invest in our fleet of Rigs; • We may be unable to meet customer demands; and • We may be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The terms of our DIP Facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and reduces our flexibility. Our DIP Facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, incur or repay debt (with the exception of payment of interest or principal at stated maturity), incur liens, make investments, purchase or redeem stock, make dividend or other distributions or enter into a merger or consolidation transaction. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our DIP Facility, and these are not waived, or we do not adequately service our DIP Facility, our lenders could declare a default under the DIP Facility. If a default occurs under our DIP Facility, our lenders may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Borrowings under our DIP Facility are collateralized with substantially all of our assets. If we were unable to repay any borrowings under our DIP Facility when due, our lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt. Any default under our DIP Facility, particularly any default that resulted in acceleration of indebtedness or foreclosure on collateral, would have a material and adverse affect on us. We will be required to make significant capital expenditures on our Rigs in the coming years or we may not be able to maintain our current level of terminal operations or customer relationships. In recent years, as a result of our financial condition, we have operated under a reduced capital expenditure plan with respect to our fleet of Rigs. As a result, we have been unable to replace or remanufacture the number of Rigs or engines we normally would have if we had not been forced to significantly reduce our capital expenditures. We believe that approximately 67% of our active fleet of Rigs will reach the end of their useful lives and must be replaced in 2006 through 2010, which will require a significant increase in our capital spending on the fleet, from approximately $30.5 million in 2006 to approximately $89 million in 2007 and approximately $75 million in each of the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. No assurances can be provided that we will have the necessary capital from our operations or that we will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, to support this necessary increase in capital investment. In addition, even if we are able to invest the $30.5 million budgeted for our fleet of Rigs in 2006, we still believe that approximately 230 of the Rigs that we own will be at risk of failing during 2006 as a result of tractor engine failures or trailer failures or the Rigs otherwise reaching the end of their useful lives. A large number of Rig failures in 2006 or beyond could result in our inability to meet our service requirements under existing customer contracts, which could result in the termination of such agreements by our customers and would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Additionally, we have removed approximately 838 tractors and 910 trailers from our operations since the beginning of 2004, and as a result, we presently have no excess Rigs that we could utilize to service our existing business beyond the Rigs that we presently operate. In the event we do not have sufficient funds available to make the capital expenditures outlined above at the appropriate time or if our Rig engines or tractors fail, we will be required to remove Rigs from operations. In the event we are required to remove Rigs from operations for this or other reasons, there will be an adverse effect on our operations, our financial results and customer relationships. 17 Table of Contents If we are not able to modify our Master Agreement in the U.S. or renegotiate our other union contracts on terms favorable to us as they expire, or if work stoppages or other labor disruptions occur during such negotiations, it could preclude us from emerging from bankruptcy and would have a material adverse effect on our operations. On March 8, 2006, certain of our subsidiaries, including Allied Systems, Ltd, made a proposal to the IBT for a new collective bargaining agreement regarding their employees in the U.S. represented by the Teamsters, by modifying the current collective bargaining agreement, which expires on May 31, 2008 and covers approximately 3,700 drivers and yard and shop personnel employed by our Automotive Group. The proposal seeks to eliminate future increases to wages, health and welfare benefits and pension contributions as contemplated by the Master Agreement and in the aggregate seeks to reduce current Teamster employee compensation by approximately 14.5%. We believe our proposal would reduce our costs, during the remaining term of the collective bargaining agreement, by approximately $65 million per year as long as our proposed terms remain in effect. We have proposed a new agreement which would expire on May 31, 2011 and have commenced negotiations with the IBT. As a result of our projected liquidity shortfall and pursuant to the conditions of the Fourth Amendment to the DIP Facility, on April 13, 2006 we filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court requesting a 10% reduction in wages earned under the Master Agreement in May and June 2006. The Bankruptcy Court granted this motion on May 1, 2006. The order granted by the Bankruptcy Court also allows us to avoid paying the wage and cost of living increases for the month of June 2006 that were previously scheduled under the Master Agreement to go into effect on June 1, 2006. The order will reduce our labor costs for employees covered by the Master Agreement in the U.S. by approximately $2 million per month in May and June 2006. The IBT has appealed the order granted by the Bankruptcy Court and the appeal is pending. On June 8, 2006, we filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court requesting that an order be entered extending the 10% reduction in wages earned under the Master Agreement through September 30, 2006, and allowing our company to avoid paying the wage and cost of living increases as well as increases relating to health, welfare and pension obligations of our company under the Master Agreement through September 30, 2006. The Bankruptcy Court previously entered an order allowing us to reduce wages earned under the Master Agreement for our employees represented by the IBT in the United States in the months of May and June by 10% and allowing us to forego wage and cost of living increases for the month of June 2006. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain interim relief beyond June 30, 2006 as requested by this motion. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain interim relief beyond June 30, 2006 as requested by this motion. If the interim relief is not extended, we may not be able to enter into a consent and fifth amendment to the DIP Facility. In addition, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to modify our Master Agreement in the U.S. as necessary to allow us to emerge from Chapter 11 or to negotiate new union contracts as the current contracts expire, or that such contracts will be on terms acceptable to us or that these contracts will not result in increased labor costs, labor disruptions, increased employee turnover, higher risk management costs, work stoppages, or lost customer market share which could in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or customer relationships. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow and interest expense. A portion of our indebtedness is subject to variable rates of interest. In addition, we may also incur additional debt obligations attracting interest at variable rates and/or may refinance our current debt at higher interest rates. Therefore, our interest expense could increase which in turn would reduce the amounts available for servicing our debt, funding our operations and capital expenditure program, meeting customer demands and pursuing new business opportunities. 18 Table of Contents A shortage of fuel or higher fuel prices resulting from fuel shortages or other factors could have a detrimental effect on the automotive industry or the automotive transportation industry and could materially and adversely affect our operations. Higher fuel prices or a shortage of fuel could impact the sales of SUVs or light trucks at our major customers which could impair our revenues and negatively impact our earnings. Further, fuel is a major expense in the transportation of automobiles, and the cost and availability of fuel are subject to economic and political factors and events, which we can neither control nor accurately predict. We attempt to minimize the effect of fuel price fluctuations by periodically purchasing a portion of our fuel in advance, but we can provide no assurance that such activity will effectively mitigate our exposure. In addition, we have negotiated fuel surcharges with substantially all of our customers, which now enables us to pass on a portion of any increase in fuel costs to these customers. Customer fuel surcharges typically reset at the beginning of each quarter based on the fuel prices from the previous quarter. Therefore, there is a one-quarter lag between the time fuel prices change and the time that the fuel surcharge is adjusted. Nevertheless, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain fuel surcharges from these customers. Furthermore, in periods of rising fuel prices and declining vehicle deliveries, we may not recover all of the fuel price increase through our fuel surcharge programs since fuel surcharge rates in any quarter reset at the beginning of the quarter based on fuel prices in the preceding quarter and are also influenced by our customers’ production levels. Higher fuel prices resulting from fuel shortages or other factors could materially and adversely affect us if we are unable to pass on the full amount of fuel price increases to our customers through fuel surcharges or higher shipment rates. In addition, higher fuel prices, even if passed on to customers, or a shortage of fuel supply, or the timing of fuel surcharge recoveries could have an adverse effect on the automotive transportation industry and our business in general. A further decline in the automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The automotive transportation industry in which we operate is dependent upon the volume of new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks manufactured, imported and sold in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, and the demand for new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks is directly affected by such external factors as general economic conditions in the U.S and Canada, unemployment, consumer confidence, government policies, continuing activities of war, terrorist activities, and the availability of affordable new car financing. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected by further downturns in the general economy and in the automotive industry and by consumer preferences in purchasing new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks or the overall financial condition of our major customers. A significant decline in the volume of automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks manufactured, distributed, and sold in North America could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The internal strategies of our largest customers could have a material effect on our performance Allied Automotive’s business is highly dependent on its largest customers, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota and Honda. General Motors and Ford have publicly announced plans to reduce production levels and eliminate excess manufacturing capacity including plans to eliminate jobs and reduce costs for certain employees. The efforts underway by our customers to improve their overall financial condition could result in numerous changes that are beyond our control including additional unannounced customer plant closings, changes in products or distribution patterns, further volume reductions, labor disruptions, changes or disruptions in our accounts receivable, mandatory reductions in our pricing, terms or service conditions or market share losses. We cannot accurately anticipate some of the risks associated with the financial condition of our largest customers. Losses may exceed our insurance coverage or reserves. Because we retain liability for a significant portion of our risks, an increase in the number or severity of accidents, on the job injuries, other loss events over those anticipated, or adverse developments in existing claims including wage and medical cost inflation could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. While we currently have insurance coverage for claims above our retention levels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. 19 Table of Contents We establish liabilities for our self-insured obligations based on actuarial valuations, our historical claims experience and management’s evaluation of the nature and severity of claims made against us. If the cost of these claims exceeds our estimates, as could occur if there were unfavorable developments in existing claims, we would be required to record additional expense in subsequent years. We have a history of losses and may not be able to improve our performance to achieve profitability. We reported net losses of $125.7 million, $53.9 million, $8.6 million, $7.5 million and $39.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In addition, our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2005 was $214.6 million. Our ability to improve our performance and profitability are dependent upon several factors including the timely and successful confirmation and implementation of a plan of reorganization, the economy, the dynamics of the automotive transportation industry including actions by our major customers, our ability to develop and implement successful business strategies, our ability to maintain effective relationships with our employees including those represented by the Teamsters, our ability to maintain effective relationships with our suppliers, the price and availability of fuel and our ability to successfully manage other operational challenges. If we fail to improve our performance, it could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and business prospects and our operations would not likely be profitable in the ensuing years. Our restricted cash, cash equivalents and other time deposits are not available for use in our operations even if they were needed to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2005, our restricted cash, cash equivalents and other time deposits were approximately $102.6 million. We use these restricted cash and investments to collateralize letters of credit required by third-party insurance companies for the settlement of insurance claims. These assets are not available for use in our operations even if needed for our continued operations or to service our debt obligations. If we do not maintain our relationships with major customers or these relationships are terminated, reduced or redesigned, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Allied Automotive’s business is highly dependent on its largest customers, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota and Honda. Approximately 88% of our Automotive Group’s 2005 revenues were generated through the services provided to these customers. Allied Automotive anticipates that it will continue to renew its contracts with its significant customers on or before expiration of the existing contracts or will serve its customers without interruption under the terms of current contracts, which may expire. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully renew these contracts on or prior to their expiration on terms satisfactory to us or that we will be able to continue to serve these customers without service interruption. In addition, the Automotive Group faces the risk of losing market share in connection with its negotiations to renew its customer contracts. For instance, in 2004, the Automotive Group renewed its agreement with DaimlerChrysler and though the agreement resulted in increased billing rates, the Automotive Group lost DaimlerChrysler’s business at six locations in connection with the contract renewal. Also, in 2005, in connection with the renewal of its contract with Toyota, the Automotive Group lost business at locations that generated approximately 32% of the 2005 revenues associated with the Toyota account. A continued loss in market share without an increase in revenues or pricing or an adequate reduction in costs would likely have an adverse effect on our operations. Certain of our agreements with our customers remain subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court before they are enforceable. In addition, although our Automotive Group believes that its relationships with these customers are mutually satisfactory, we can provide no assurance that these relationships will not be terminated in whole or in part in the future. Furthermore, automotive manufacturers are relying increasingly on logistics companies and re-engineering vehicle delivery practices, which could result in a reduction of services provided by us or an increase in the Automotive Group’s cost of delivery for some or all of our major customers. A significant reduction in vehicle production levels, plant closings, or the imposition of vendor price reductions by these manufacturers, or the loss of General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota or Honda as customers, or a significant reduction or a change in the design, definition, frequency or terms of the services provided for any of these customers by our Automotive Group would have a material adverse effect on 20 Table of Contents our operations. General Motors, DaimlerChrysler, and Ford, in particular, have publicly announced plans to significantly reduce vendor costs including those costs associated with logistics services. Competition in the automotive transportation industry could result in a loss of our market share or a reduction in our rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The automotive transportation industry is highly competitive. Our Automotive Group currently competes with other motor carriers of varying sizes, as well as with railroads and independent owner-operators. Allied Automotive also competes with non-union motor carriers that may be able to provide services to their customers at lower prices and in a more flexible manner than us. The development of new methods for hauling vehicles could also lead to increased competition. For example, some customers occasionally utilize local drive-away services to facilitate local delivery of products. There has also been an increase in the number of automobile-hauling companies that utilize non-union labor, and we believe that the market share and Rig capacity represented by such companies is increasing. Automobile-hauling companies that utilize non-union labor operate at a significant cost advantage as compared to our Automotive Group and other unionized automobile-hauling companies. Non-union car-haul competitors also operate without restrictive work rules that apply to our Automotive Group and other unionized companies. Railroads, which specialize in long-haul transportation, may be able to provide delivery services at costs to customers that are less than the long-haul delivery cost of Allied Automotive’s services. Further, the railroads could form alliances for local delivery of customer products. If we lose market share to these competitors or have to reduce our rates in order to retain our market share, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange, which could make it more difficult for investors to liquidate their shares, result in a decline in the stock price and make it difficult for us to raise additional capital. We voluntarily requested that our common stock be delisted from the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) during 2005 since we did not believe that we would be able to comply with the continuing listing requirements of the AMEX. The stock was subsequently delisted in August 2005 and is currently traded on the Pink Sheets, which are a daily listing of bid and ask prices for over-the-counter stocks not included on the daily over-the-counter bulletin boards. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the Pink Sheets. Adverse changes in the foreign business climate, primarily in Canada, could adversely affect our operations. Although the majority of our operational activity takes place in the U.S., we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in foreign countries, primarily Canada. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, adverse changes in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the U.S., hostility from local populations, terrorist activity, the potential adverse effects of currency exchange controls, increased security at U.S. border crossings which could slow the movement of freight and increase our operating costs, deterioration of foreign economic conditions, currency rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions and potential changes in local taxation policies. Due to the foregoing risks, any of which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, we believe that our business activities outside of the U.S. involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities. Major changes in key personnel on whom we depend could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent upon our senior management team, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. If our management team is unable to develop successful strategies, achieve company objectives or maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers, employees, suppliers and creditors, our ability to grow our business and meet business challenges could be impaired. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management team or that we will be able to attract qualified replacement personnel. 21 Table of Contents The loss of our Teamster drivers and mechanics could adversely affect our operations Our ability to perform daily operations on behalf of our customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and mechanics to staff our Automotive Group’s terminals and garages. Should we experience higher Teamster employee retirements or resignations due to our efforts to seek interim wage relief or modifications in our Master Agreement, our ability to grow our business, maintain our current business levels and meet customer service requirements could be adversely impacted. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain existing Teamster personnel at existing staffing levels or attract new Teamster employees to replenish our work force. We have previously had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and any unidentified material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our SEC and other reporting requirements. In connection with its audits of our consolidated financial statements for years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, including reviews of the quarterly periods for those years, KPMG advised the Audit Committee and management that KPMG had identified deficiencies in our analysis, evaluation and review process for financial reporting. KPMG informed the Audit Committee and management that it believed such deficiencies were a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting, with respect to our analysis, evaluation and review of financial information included in our financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, KPMG indicated that certain deficiencies continue to exist and were considered to be a material weakness as of December 31, 2005. However, KPMG acknowledged to the Audit Committee and management that they had observed improvement in processes and controls with respect to our analysis, evaluation and review of financial information included in our financial reporting. While improvements had been made, KPMG indicated that the design and operating effectiveness of these controls could only be comprehensively evaluated after they have been in place and operating for a reasonable period of time. Since we are not an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2), we have not conducted the initial assessment of our internal control over financial reporting mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 nor has KPMG audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will report on that annual assessment in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, when required, which will be no earlier than for the year ending December 31, 2007. That process could identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses not previously reported. We can provide no assurances that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. If we fail to remediate any such material weakness, our operating results or customer relationships could be adversely affected or we may fail to meet our SEC reporting requirements or our financial statements may contain a material misstatement. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives or of preventing fraud due to its inherent limitations, regardless of how well designed or implemented. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and as a result is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Because of these and other limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements or instances of fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal control over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 