Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business, its future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and marketplace conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative, but not all inclusive, of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. Risks Related to Our Operations Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems and single serve packs. A significant percentage of our total revenue is attributable to sales of single serve packs for use with our Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems (which include all those branded “Keurig®” and “Vue®”). In fiscal 2012, total consolidated net sales of single serve packs and Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and related accessories represented approximately 90% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems and sales of single serve packs to an increasing installed base of brewers are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the sale of Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems or sales of our single serve packs would materially adversely affect us. Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems compete against all sellers of coffeemakers, which includes companies that produce traditional pot-brewed coffeemakers and those that produce single serve brewing systems. These companies include Bunn-O-Matic Corporation, Mars, Inc. (through its FLAVIA® unit), Conair, Inc., Hamilton Beach / Proctor-Silex, Inc., Jarden Corporation, Nestle S.A. (including the Nescafe Dolce-Gusto beverage system), Phillips Electronics NV (including the SENSEO® brewing system, in cooperation with Sara Lee Corporation) and Robert Bosch GmbH (including the TASSIMO® beverage system, in cooperation with Kraft Foods, Inc.), Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., Starbucks Corporation (including its Verismo® brewing system), Whirlpool Corporation, as well 8 Table of Contents as a number of additional brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology, quality of products, desired brands or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems and single serve packs, and accordingly, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Competition in specialty coffee is intense and could affect our sales and profitability. The specialty coffee business is highly fragmented and competition in specialty coffee is increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the marketplace. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources and access to capital than we do. Our primary competitors in specialty coffee include Dunkin’ Brands Inc., Peet’s Coffee & Tea, Starbucks Corporation and Tim Hortons Inc. There are also numerous smaller, regional brands or private label brands that also compete in the specialty coffee business. In addition, we compete indirectly against all other coffee brands in the marketplace. A number of nationwide coffee marketers, such as The J.M. Smucker Company, Kraft Foods, Inc., and Nestlé USA are distributing premium coffee brands. These premium coffee brands may serve as substitutes for our coffee. Our products are subject to significant price competition within the coffee industry. From time to time, we need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures or to maintain our position in the marketplace. Such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. Any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices when raw material costs increase, would harm profit margins and, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our results of operations will suffer. We compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label or generic products that generally are sold at lower prices. In September 2012, two patents associated with our K-Cup® packs expired, and certain third parties have launched competing products. Currently, we anticipate that the total of all unlicensed portion packs will represent roughly 5% to 15% of the system demand; starting at the lower end of the range in 2013 and potentially increasing toward the top end of the range as we look two to three years out. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating our Brewing systems from our competitors, our competitive position may be weakened. Consumers’ willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to maintain consumer confidence that our products are of a higher quality and provide greater convenience and choice. Consumers’ willingness to purchase our products also depends on our ability to meet or to exceed their expectations that our brewing systems work as designed, as well as provide greater value than less expensive alternatives. If the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products and/or we may reduce prices and accordingly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected. Damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in private label use by customers or consumers could negatively impact us. We believe that maintaining and developing our brands is important to our success and the importance of brand recognition may increase to the extent that competitors offer products similar to ours. A serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands, or increased development of private label brands may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our reputation or brands. An increase in competitive coffee and tea products may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. As we discuss above in “Competition in specialty coffee is intense and could affect our sales and profitability” the beverage industry is intensely competitive. Competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. We have implemented a tiered brand and pricing structure to provide options for brand conscious and/or value-oriented consumers. The effects of this pricing structure, coupled with the emergence of new, unlicensed portion packs, may adversely impact profit margins of our K-Cup® packs. From time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may also adversely affect our profitability. Such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. In addition, our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and retailers have had to become more price-competitive in recent years and increased pressure on competition could continue throughout the United States and other major markets. Such increased competition among our customers could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced 9 Table of Contents large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. These factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third parties, the successful independent development by third parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. Many factors bear upon the exclusive ownership and exploitation right to intellectual properties, including, without limitation, prior rights of third parties and non-use and/or non-enforcement by us and/or related entities. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, which include the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents and other trade secrets and know how relating to our technology. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products and certain patents of ours have expired or will expire in the near future. In the United States, certain patents associated with our K-Cup® packs presently used in our Keurig® K-Cup® Brewers expired in September 2012. We have additional pending patent applications associated with certain elements of current K-Cup® pack technology which, if ultimately issued as patents, would extend coverage over all or some portion of K-Cup® packs, and have expiration dates extending to 2023. Certain elements of current generation of Vue® packs are covered by patents which expire in 2021 and by others that are still pending. These pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents, or if they do result in the issuance of patents, these patents may not be enforceable, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. In addition, we continue to invest in further innovation in portion packs, brewing technology, and beverage development that will enhance our current patents or that may lead to new patents and take steps we believe are appropriate to protect all such innovation. We are prepared to protect our patents vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation we institute to protect our intellectual property rights given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially adversely affect us. In addition, the validity, enforceability and value of our intellectual property depends in part on the continued maintenance and prosecution of such rights through applications, maintenance documents, and other filings, and rights may be lost through the intentional or inadvertent failure to make such necessary filings. Similarly, third parties may allege that our activities violate their intellectual properties. To the extent we are required to defend our self against such a claim, no assurance can be given that we will prevail. Such defense could be costly and materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While we vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, in the United States, two of the patents associated with certain elements of our current generation K-Cup® packs expired in fiscal 2012. To the extent any manufacturers are successful in marketing and selling their own portion packs, this could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Certain third parties have launched competing portion packs. Product recalls, product liability, sales returns and warranty expense may adversely impact us. We are subject to regulation by a variety of regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Food and Drug Administration. In the event our manufacturer of single cup brewers does not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, we might not identify a deficiency before the brewers ship to our customers. The failure of our third party manufacturer to produce merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and brands and lead to customer litigation against us. If we recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or issue voluntary or mandatory recalls of those products at a substantial cost to us that may not be recoverable from the manufacturer. We also may incur various expenses related to product recalls, including product warranty costs, sales returns, and product liability costs, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of 10 Table of Contents operations. While we maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty costs in the future. As we have grown, we have added significantly to our product testing, quality control infrastructure and overall quality processes. Nevertheless, as we continue to innovate, and our products become more complex, both in design and componentry, product performance may tend to modulate, causing warranty rates to possibly fluctuate going forward, so that they may be higher or lower than we are currently experiencing and for which we are currently providing in our warranty reserve. In addition, selling products for human consumption such as coffee, tea, hot cocoa and hot apple cider involves a number of risks. We may need to recall some of our products if they become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. We also may incur significant liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we could be the target of claims that our advertising is false or deceptive under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy is dependent on our continued innovation and the successful development and launch of new products and product extensions. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key marketplaces and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing marketplaces. In addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Failure to maintain profitable, strategic relationships with well-recognized coffee brands such as Caribou, Dunkin’ Brands, Folgers, Newman’s Own Organics and Starbucks could adversely impact our future growth and business. We have entered into strategic relationships for the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of K-Cup® and Vue® pack products with well-regarded coffee companies such as Caribou, Dunkin’ Brands, The J.M. Smucker Company, Newman’s Own® Organics, and Starbucks. These relationships are multi-year agreements and a failure to maintain or grow relationships such as these could adversely impact our overall future profitability and growth, awareness of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems, and our ability to attract new consumers to the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems. We continue to examine opportunities for business relationships with other strong national/regional brands to create additional single serve products that will help augment consumer demand for the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems. Although many companies or licensees are willing to enter into such manufacturing and distribution and/or licensing agreements, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be negotiated on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also have license agreements with leading tea brands such as Celestial Seasonings (Celestial Seasonings, Inc.), Bigelow (R.C. Bigelow, Inc.), Tazo (Starbucks), and Twinings (Associated British Foods plc) for their line of teas. The failure to maintain these agreements could adversely impact our future growth. As most of our single cup brewers are manufactured by a single manufacturer in China, a significant disruption in the operation of this manufacturer, political unrest or significant economic uncertainty in China could materially adversely affect us. During 2013, the vast majority of all our brewers will be manufactured by a single company at three locations in China. We have begun to expand our brewer manufacturing footprint, having recently qualified manufacturers in Malaysia and China, however brewer development activities underway at these additional manufacturers will not begin to significantly impact the distribution of brewer supply until 2014. Any disruption in production or inability of this manufacturer to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to meet demand for our single cup brewers. Furthermore, as our current primary manufacturer is located in China, this exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China, or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, 11 Table of Contents including enactment of protectionist legislation. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect us. Our long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs could impair our ability to be flexible in our business without penalty. In order to ensure a continuous supply of high quality raw materials some of our inventory purchase obligations include long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs. The timing of these may not always coincide with the period in which we need the supplies to fulfill customer demand. This could lead to higher and more variable inventory levels and/or higher raw material costs. Our business is highly dependent on sales of specialty coffee, including sales of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and related single serve packs , and if demand for specialty coffee or our product offerings decrease, our business would suffer. The majority of our revenues are dependent on demand for specialty coffee. In addition, demand for specialty coffee is a driving factor in the sales of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and related single serve packs. Demand for specialty coffee and demand for our Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and related single serve packs is affected by many factors, including: · Changes in consumer tastes and preferences; · Changes in consumer lifestyles; · National, regional and local economic conditions; · Perceptions or concerns about the environmental impact of our products; · Demographic trends; and · Perceived or actual health benefits or risks. Because we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, including sales of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and related single serve packs, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee or our product offerings would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for our specialty coffee, sales of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewers or related single serve packs decreases, our sales would decrease and we would be materially adversely affected. Our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. There is inherent risk in forecasting demand due to the uncertainties involved in assessing the current level of maturity of the single serve market. We set target levels for the manufacture of brewers and single serve packs and for the purchase of green coffee in advance of customer orders based upon our forecasts of market and customer demand. If our forecasts exceed demand, we could experience excess inventory in the short-term, excess manufacturing capacity in the long-term, and/or price decreases, all of which could impact our financial performance. Alternatively, if demand exceeds our forecasts significantly beyond our current manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer demand, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income. We depend on the expertise of leadership personnel. If we do not have a sufficient pipeline of talent needed to execute the strategy and grow the business, our operations could suffer. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on our ability to attract and retain executive talent. We have identified succession planning and talent development as strategic priorities and implemented a process to ensure early identification, assignment management, and development of talent. We have also made external sourcing a strategic priority to identity talent in the marketplace. Nevertheless, if we do not have a sufficient pipeline of talent needed to execute the strategy, grow the business in the future and meet business objectives, our operations could suffer. Laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our beverage products are extensively regulated in the United States and Canada. Our products are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacturing, storing, marketing, advertising, and distributing of these products. Other laws and regulations relate to labeling requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, health and safety and trade practices. Enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. 12 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. At September 29, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $531.5 million including capital lease and financing obligations of $57.9 million. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Restated Credit Agreement”) under which we maintain senior secured credit facilities consisting of (i) an $800.0 million U.S. revolving credit facility, (ii) a $200.0 million alternative currency revolving credit facility, and (iii) a term loan A facility. Future disruptions in the financial markets, such as have been recently experienced, could affect our ability to obtain new or additional debt financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all), and have other adverse effects on us. A description of our indebtedness is included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the subheading Liquidity and Capital Resources, included in this Annual Report. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Our debt obligations could: · Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; · Impair our rights to our intellectual property, which have been pledged as collateral under our credit facility, upon the occurrence of a default; · Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and · Limit, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds and have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements because such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting, manufacturing or distribution capabilities or disruption of our supply chain or delays in the start-up of new roasting, manufacturing and distribution facilities in fiscal 2013 could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently roast our coffee in the United States (“U.S.”) in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington, and California and in Canada in Ontario and Quebec. We have added an additional U.S. manufacturing and production facility in Virginia in fiscal year 2012. We expect to be able to meet current and forecasted demand for the near term. However, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current roasting capabilities internally or acquire additional roasting capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. Significant interruption in the operation of our current facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. In addition, we are the primary manufacturer of single serve packs sold for use with our single cup brewer systems. Any disruption to our manufacturing and distribution facilities could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Our ability to make, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers and contract manufacturers due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics or labor strikes at our facilities or theirs, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Our order processing and fulfillment systems may fail or limit user traffic, which could cause us to lose sales. We are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to protect against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. In addition, growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the capacity of our systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. We have experienced capacity constraints in the past that have resulted in decreased levels of customer service, such as increased customer call center wait times and delays in service to customers for limited periods of time. Substantial damage to our systems or a systems failure that causes interruptions for a number of days could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unsuccessful in updating and expanding our order fulfillment infrastructure, our ability to grow may be constrained. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Although we have not experienced to date any material security breaches, our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. An increasing number of companies have recently disclosed breaches of the security of their 13 Table of Contents websites, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our customers’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee, can also result in a data breach. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, “denial-of-service” type attacks and similar disruptions that could, in certain instances, make all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our web customers, as well as those of other prominent companies, may be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our customers’ computers. These emails may appear to be legitimate emails sent by our company, but they may direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. Our reliance on a single order fulfillment entity for our AH business exposes us to significant risk in the United States. We rely on a single order fulfillment entity, M.Block & Sons, Inc. (“MBlock”), to process the majority of orders for our AH single cup business sold through to retailers, department stores and mass merchants in the United States. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for the Company’s revenue recognition policy on how we recognize revenue on orders processed through fulfillment entities. We are subject to significant credit risk regarding the creditworthiness of MBlock and the creditworthiness of its customers. Receivables from MBlock were approximately 37% of our consolidated accounts receivable net balance at September 29, 2012. The inability of MBlock to perform its obligations to us, whether due to deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with MBlock is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third party to provide these services to us in a timely manner or on favorable terms or that we would be able to internalize the related services effectively or in a timely manner. 14 Table of Contents We depend on certain retailers for a substantial portion of our revenues in any fiscal period and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from, these retailers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, we are reliant on certain retailers for a substantial portion of our revenues. For example, our sales to Wal-Mart represented approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2012. If Wal-Mart reduces its demand for our products or is unable to perform its financial obligations, whether due to deterioration in its financial condition, integrity, failure of its business systems, or otherwise, it could result in lower revenues or in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. In addition, because of the competitive environment facing retailers, many of our customers have increasingly sought to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs, pricing concessions, more favorable trade terms and increased emphasis on private label products. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to customers, our margins would be reduced. Further, if we are unable to continue to offer terms that are acceptable to our significant customers or our customers determine that they need less inventory to service consumers, these customers could reduce purchases of our products or may increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. Exposure to foreign currency risk and related hedging activities may result in significant losses and fluctuations to the periodic income statements. Our foreign operations are primarily related to CBU, which is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by changes in these or other factors. We also source our green coffee, certain production equipment, and components of our brewers and manufacturing of our brewers from countries outside the United States, which are subject to the same risks described for Canada above; however, most of our green coffee and brewer purchases are transacted in the United States dollar. The majority of the transactions conducted by CBU are in the Canadian dollar. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and are positively affected when the United States dollar weakens. Conversely, our expenses are positively affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and adversely affected when the United States dollar weakens. From time to time we engage in transactions involving various derivative instruments to mitigate our foreign currency rate exposures. More specifically, we hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition, we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain capital purchase liabilities for production equipment with the objective of minimizing cost risk due to market fluctuations. As we expand geographically, we expect to have increasing foreign currency risk associated with cash flows from foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchase commitments, and foreign currency intercompany debt. However, there can be no assurance that these contracts will effectively protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and we may incur material losses from such hedging transactions. Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors, our operating results are subject to quarterly fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® Single Cup Brewing systems in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. We face risks related to the ongoing SEC inquiry. As previously disclosed, the staff of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement informed us that it was conducting an informal inquiry into matters at the Company. At the direction of the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors, we are cooperating fully with the SEC staff’s inquiry. At this point, we are unable to predict what, if any, consequences the SEC inquiry may have on us. However, the inquiry may continue to result in considerable legal expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or other amounts and could become subject to injunctions, an administrative cease and desist order, and/or other equitable remedies. The resolution of the SEC inquiry could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of the SEC inquiry. Litigation pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently party to various legal and other proceedings. In particular, numerous putative class actions and stockholder derivative actions have been filed against us in response to our disclosures in the Current Reports on Forms 8-K dated 15 Table of Contents September 28, 2010 and November 15, 2010. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve substantial expense to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Risks Related to our Industry Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or cost of materials used to produce our brewers could reduce our gross margin and profit. We utilize a combination of outside brokers and direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives and cooperative groups for our supply of green coffees. Outside brokers provide the largest supply of our green coffee. The supply and “C” price of coffee are subject to high volatility. Supply and price of all coffee grades can be affected by multiple factors, such as weather, pest damage, politics, competitive pressures and economics in the producing countries. Cyclical swings in commodity markets are common and the most recent years have been especially volatile for the “C” price of coffee (the price per pound quoted by the Intercontinental Exchange). The “C” price of coffee reached a multi-year high during fiscal 2011. Despite declines in the “C” price in fiscal 2012, it is expected that coffee prices will remain volatile in the coming years. In addition to the “C” price, coffee of the quality sought by us tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” in addition to the “C” price, depending on the supply and demand at the time of purchase. These differentials also are subject to significant variations, due to many of the same factors as for other high quality Arabica coffee beans, and have generally been on the rise in recent years. We generally try to pass on significant coffee price increases and decreases to our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on cost increases to customers without losses in sales volume or gross margin. Additionally, if higher green coffee costs can only be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis by price increases, our gross margin percentage would be lower. Similarly, rapid and sharp decreases in the cost of green coffee could also force us to lower our prices to customers resulting in lower gross margins due to the need to sell products comprised of higher green coffee costs until we would be able to reduce our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. Significant fluctuations in the cost of other commodities, such as steel, petroleum and copper influence prices of plastic and other components used in manufacturing our coffee brewers. In fiscal 2012, approximately 96% of brewers sold were sold approximately at cost or sometimes at a loss when factoring in the incremental costs related to sales. With respect to the Keurig® Single Cup AH Brewing system, we are continuing to pursue a model designed to penetrate the marketplace, a component of which is to sell brewers at affordable consumer price points in order to attract new customers into Keurig® Single Cup Brewing system. Any rapid, sharp increases in our cost of manufacturing AH brewers would be unlikely to lead us to raise sales prices to offset such increased cost as our current strategy is to drive brewer adoption and not risk slowing down the rate of sales growth as compared to our competitors or before realizing cost reductions in our purchase commitments. There can be no assurance that we will able to sell our AH brewers approximately at cost when such fluctuation occur. Increased demand for high-quality Arabica coffee beans coupled with possible supply shortages could jeopardize our ability to maintain or expand our business. We roast over 55 different types of green coffee beans to produce our coffee selections. If one type of green coffee bean were to become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we believe we could substitute another type of coffee of equal or better quality meeting a similar taste profile. However, increased global demand for high-quality Arabica coffee, coupled with the possibility of a worldwide supply shortage, could have a material adverse impact on us. Worldwide or regional shortages of high-quality Arabica coffees can be caused by multiple factors, including but not limited to, weather, pest damage and economics in the producing countries. The political situation in many of the Arabica coffee growing regions, including certain countries in Africa and Central and South America, and in Indonesia can be unstable, and such instability could affect our ability to purchase coffee from those regions. If Arabica coffee beans from a region or a country become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to discontinue particular coffee types and blends or substitute coffee beans from other regions or countries in our blends. Frequent substitutions and changes in our coffee product lines could lead to cost increases, customer alienation and fluctuations in our gross margins. While production of commercial grade coffee (i.e. Robusta coffee) is generally on the rise, many industry experts are concerned about the ability of specialty coffee production to keep pace with demand. Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase are not readily available on the commodity markets. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high-quality Arabica coffee beans. 16 Table of Contents Adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. Our sales and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which are still under pressure from United States and global economic conditions. A worsening of the economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely impact our sales, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy and further diversify the geographical concentration of our operations. For example, we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee and a shift in consumer demand away from specialty coffee due to economic or other consumer preferences would harm our business. Keurig® brewer sales may also decline as a result of the economic environment. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps, and the risk of counterparty default. Increased scrutiny from government agencies could result in agency investigations or other actions. Because of the increase in government regulation and oversight, coupled with the expansion of our business generally, and specifically with our expansion into other single serve beverages, we may come under increased scrutiny from different government agencies for various reasons. This increases the potential for agency investigations, whether formal or informal, which would have the result of diverting management attention and time and other resources. In addition, because of additional governmental regulation, we may need to incur additional compliance costs to ensure that all of our activities and products comply with all applicable regulations. Our products must comply with government regulation. We are subject to United States Department of Agriculture’s, the Food and Drug Administration’s , and the Canadian equivalents’, regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program. In addition, similar regulations and requirements exist in the other countries in which we may market and sell our products and our organic products are covered by these various regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labeling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products. Loss of certification within our supply chain or as related to our manufacturing processes could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “Fair Trade,” to differentiate some of our products from others, such as the Newman’s Own® Organics product line, Green Mountain Coffee® Fair Traded Certified™ coffee line and CBU’s Fair Trade Organic Collection. In fiscal 2012, approximately 32% of our coffee purchases were from certified sources. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 