Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of Keurig® Brewing systems and portion packs. A significant percentage of our total revenue is attributable to sales of portion packs for use with our Keurig® Brewing systems (which include all those branded "Keurig®" and "Vue®"). In fiscal 2013, total consolidated net sales of portion packs and Keurig® Brewers and related accessories represented approximately 92% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig® Brewing systems and sales of portion packs to an increasing installed base of brewers are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the sale of Keurig® Brewing systems or sales of our portion packs would materially adversely affect us. Keurig® Brewing systems compete against all sellers of coffeemakers. These companies include Bunn-O-Matic Corporation, Mars, Inc. (through its FLAVIA® unit), Conair, Inc., Hamilton Beach / Proctor-Silex, Inc., Jarden Corporation, Nestle S.A. (including the Nescafe Dolce-Gusto® beverage system), Phillips Electronics NV (including the SENSEO® brewing system, in cooperation with Sara Lee Corporation) and Robert Bosch GmbH (including the TASSIMO® beverage system, in cooperation with Kraft Foods, Inc.), Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., Starbucks Corporation (including its Verismo® brewing system), Whirlpool Corporation, as well as a number of additional brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology, quality of products, desired brands or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig® Brewing systems and portion packs, and accordingly, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Changes in the coffee environment and retail landscape could impact our financial results. The coffee environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the beverage retail landscape is very dynamic and constantly evolving, not only in emerging and developing marketplaces, where modern trade is growing at a faster pace than traditional trade outlets, but also in developed marketplaces, where discounters and value stores, as well as the volume of transactions through e-commerce, are growing at a rapid pace. If we are unable to successfully adapt to the rapidly changing environment and retail landscape, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected. Increased competition could hurt our business. The coffee industry is intensely competitive and we compete with respect to product, quality, convenience and price. We face significant competition in each of our channels and marketplaces. We compete with major international beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous companies, like our Company, that are primarily local in operation. Our coffees also compete against local or regional brands as well as against private label brands developed by retailers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the global marketplace or in various local marketplaces may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. Starting in fiscal 2013, in the U.S. and Canada, certain patents associated with our current generation K-Cup® packs presently used in Keurig® K-Cup® brewers expired in September 2012. With the patent expiry, there has been increased competition by unlicensed brands or unlicensed private label manufacturers offering new portion packs that are 15 Table of Contents compatible with the Keurig® K-Cup® brewers. This increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. Consolidation in the retail channel or the loss of key retail or grocery customers could adversely affect our financial performance. Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. Larger retailers may seek lower prices from us, may demand increased marketing or promotional expenditures, and may be more likely to use their distribution networks to introduce and develop private label brands, any of which could negatively affect the Company's profitability. In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to maintain good relationships with key retail and grocery customers. The loss of one or more of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, because of the competitive environment facing retailers, many of our customers have increasingly sought to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs, pricing concessions, more favorable trade terms and increased emphasis on private label products. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to customers, our margins would be reduced. Further, if we are unable to continue to offer terms that are acceptable to our significant customers or our customers determine that they need fewer inventories to service consumers; these customers could reduce purchases of our products or may increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean Arabica coffee and related coffee products. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and, although coffee prices have come down from their near-record highs of 2011, they are still above the historical average price of coffee and may again increase significantly due to factors described below. The Arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "C" price. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the "C" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality Arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "C" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. These are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 16 Table of Contents Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. We may be able to pass some or all raw materials, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. If we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain profitable, strategic relationships with well-recognized coffee brands/brand owners such as Caribou®, Dunkin' Brands, Folgers®, Newman's Own® Organics and Starbucks® could adversely impact our future growth and business. We have entered into strategic relationships for the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of portion pack products with well-regarded coffee companies such as Caribou, Dunkin' Brands, The J.M. Smucker Company, Newman's Own® Organics, and Starbucks. As independent companies, our strategic partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our strategic partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own specialty beverage products. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our strategic partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, or if our strategic partners are not satisfied with our brand innovation and development efforts, they may take actions that could adversely impact our overall future profitability and growth, awareness of our Keurig® Brewing systems, and our ability to attract new consumers to the Keurig® Brewing systems. If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected. We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our growth prospects, which are generally driven by volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of the potential price and product mix. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or the mix of products necessary to achieve our long-term growth objectives. Continued innovation and the successful development and launch of new products and product extensions are critical to our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key marketplaces and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing marketplaces. If we are unable to expand our operations in new countries, our long-term growth rate could be negatively affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in new countries, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those countries and on our ability to establish operations in those countries or to form strategic business partnerships and to make necessary 17 Table of Contents infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, order processing and fulfillment systems and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in new marketplaces must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular new country. Obsolete inventory may result in reduced prices or write-downs. We must manage our inventory of brewers effectively. As we innovate and introduce new brewers to the marketplace, our existing brewers are at an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If we ultimately determine that we have excess brewers, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure or successfully implement our business transformation initiative, our business could suffer. We depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations and between our personnel and the personnel of our contract manufacturers, suppliers or other third-party partners. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to streamline business processes and migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide system solution. There can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with changing business needs, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, product recalls, product liability, sales returns and warranty expense could negatively impact us. We believe our success depends on our ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain the brand image of our existing products, build up brand image for new products and brand extensions, and maintain our corporate reputation. We cannot assure you, however, that our commitment to product safety and quality and our continuing investment in advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products' brand image and on consumer preferences. Product safety or quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of product safety or quality issues or contamination, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a beverage or other product from all of the channels in which the affected production was distributed. Such issues or recalls could negatively affect our profitability and brand image. 18 Table of Contents Failure to meet expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the price and volatility of our stock. Failure to meet expectations, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. We rely on certain single companies for certain strategic material, product manufacturing and order fulfillment, so a significant disruption in the operation of any of these companies to produce for us could materially adversely affect us. We have single suppliers for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs, the processing of certain key ingredients in our portion packs. In addition, a single company manufactures the vast majority of our brewers. We have begun to look for additional suppliers for these strategic raw materials and ingredient processing, and have begun to expand our brewer manufacturing footprint, having recently qualified manufacturers in Malaysia and China. However, in the meantime, any disruption in operation of these companies to produce for us, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to meet demand for our products. In addition, we rely primarily on one order fulfillment entity, M.Block & Sons, Inc. ("MBlock"), to process the majority of orders sold through to retailers, department stores and mass merchants in the United States. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies-Revenue Recognition of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for the Company's revenue recognition policy on how we recognize revenue on orders processed through fulfillment entities. The inability of MBlock to perform its obligations to us, whether due to deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with MBlock is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third-party to provide these services to us in a timely manner or on favorable terms or that we would be able to internalize the related services effectively or in a timely manner. Our long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs could impair our ability to be flexible in our business without penalty. In order to ensure a continuous supply of high quality raw materials some of our inventory purchase obligations include long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs. The timing of these may not always coincide with the period in which we need the supplies to fulfill customer demand. This could lead to higher and more variable inventory levels and/or higher raw material costs. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products. Loss of certification within our supply chain or as related to our manufacturing processes could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as "organic" or "Fair Trade," to differentiate some of our products from others, such as the Newman's Own® Organics product line, Green Mountain Coffee® Fair Trade Certified™ coffee line and the Canada segment's Fair Trade Organic Collection. In fiscal 2013, approximately 31% of our coffee purchases were from certified sources. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors such as adverse weather conditions, our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® Brewing systems in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the geographies in which we operate. Unusually warm weather during the winter months may have a temporary effect on the demand for some of our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. Our failure to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. There is inherent risk in forecasting demand due to the uncertainties involved in assessing the current level of maturity of the single serve component of our business. We set target levels for the manufacture of brewers and portion packs and for the purchase of green coffee in advance of customer orders based upon our forecasts of customer demand. If our forecasts exceed demand, we could experience excess inventory in the short-term, excess manufacturing capacity in the short and long-term, and/or price decreases, all of which could impact our financial performance. Alternatively, if demand exceeds our forecasts significantly beyond our current manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand, which could result in a loss of share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income. Increases or changes in income or indirect tax rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We are subject to income tax in the United States and Canada in which we generate net operating revenues. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. In addition, our business operations are subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as "indirect taxes," including import duties, excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes and payroll taxes, in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including indirect taxes imposed by state and local governments. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our business operations or products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, which may negatively impact our net operating revenues. Exposure to foreign currency risk and related hedging activities may result in significant losses and fluctuations to our periodic income statements. Our foreign operations are primarily related to our Canada segment, which is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by changes in these or other factors. We also source our green coffee, certain production equipment, and components of our brewers and manufacturing of our brewers from countries outside the United States, which are subject to the same risks described for Canada above. The majority of the transactions conducted by our Canada segment are in the Canadian dollar. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected when the United States 20 Table of Contents dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and are positively affected when the United States dollar weakens. Conversely, our expenses are positively affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and adversely affected when the United States dollar weakens. From time to time we engage in transactions involving various derivative instruments to mitigate our foreign currency rate exposures. More specifically, we hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition, we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain capital purchase liabilities for production equipment with the objective of minimizing cost risk due to market fluctuations. As we expand geographically, we expect to have increasing foreign currency risk associated with cash flows from foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchase commitments, and foreign currency intercompany debt. However, there can be no assurance that these contracts will effectively protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and we may incur material losses from such hedging transactions. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting, manufacturing or distribution capabilities or disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. We currently roast and manufacture our coffee and other beverage products in the United States in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington, Virginia and California and in Canada in Ontario and Quebec. We expect to be able to meet current and forecasted demand for the near term. However, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current capabilities internally or acquire additional capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted and our reputation may be damaged. Although we have not experienced to date any external material security breaches, our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. An increasing number of companies have recently disclosed breaches of the security of their websites, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our customers' proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, "denial-of-service" type attacks and similar disruptions that could, in certain instances, make all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to 21 Table of Contents a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third-parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third-parties, the successful independent development by third-parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our products are extensively regulated in the United States and Canada. Our products are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacturing, storing, marketing, advertising, and distributing of these products. Other laws and regulations relate to labeling requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, health and safety and trade practices. Enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products relating to the content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products. One such law, which is in effect in California and is known as Proposition 65, requires that a warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance that, in the view of the state, causes cancer or birth defects. The state maintains lists of these substances and periodically adds other substances to these lists. Proposition 65 exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in California because it does not provide for any generally applicable quantitative threshold below which the presence of a listed substance is exempt from the warning requirement. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. However, Proposition 65 does not require a warning if the manufacturer of a product can demonstrate that the use of the product in question exposes consumers to a daily quantity of a listed substance that is below a "safe harbor" threshold that may be established, is naturally occurring, is the result of necessary cooking, or is subject to another applicable exception. One or more substances that are currently on the Proposition 65 lists, or that may be added to the lists in the future, 22 Table of Contents can be detected in Company products at low levels that are safe. With respect to substances that have not yet been listed under Proposition 65, the Company takes the position that listing is not scientifically justified. With respect to substances that are already listed, the Company takes the position that the presence of each such substance in Company products is subject to an applicable exemption from the warning requirement. The State of California or other parties, however, may take a contrary position. If we were required to add Proposition 65 warnings on the labels of one or more of our beverage products produced for sale in California, the resulting consumer reaction to the warnings and possible adverse publicity could negatively affect our sales both in California and in other marketplaces. We face risks related to the ongoing SEC inquiry. As previously disclosed, the staff of the SEC's Division of Enforcement informed us that it was conducting an informal inquiry into matters at the Company. At the direction of the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors, we are cooperating fully with the SEC staff's inquiry. At this point, we are unable to predict what, if any, consequences the SEC inquiry may have on us. However, the inquiry may continue to result in considerable legal expenses, divert management's attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or other amounts and could become subject to injunctions, an administrative cease and desist order, and/or other equitable remedies. The resolution of the SEC inquiry could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of the SEC inquiry. Litigation pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently party to various legal and other proceedings. In particular, numerous putative class actions and stockholder derivative actions have been filed against us in response to our disclosures in the Current Reports on Forms 8-K dated September 28, 2010 and November 15, 2010. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve substantial expense to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. In fiscal 2013, our net sales in the United States were $3.7 billion, or 85% of our total net sales. Our sales and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which are still under pressure from United States and global economic conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a worsening of the economic downturn and/or decrease in consumer spending in the United States may adversely impact our sales, reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps, and the risk of counterparty default. Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products, and could impact the food security of communities around the world. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 