Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business, its future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. Risks Related to Our Operations Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of K-Cup® portion packs. A significant and increasing percentage of our total revenue has been attributable to royalties and other revenue from sales of K-Cups for use with our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems. In fiscal 2009, total consolidated net sales of K-Cups, Keurig brewers and royalties earned upon shipment of K-Cups by licensed roasters represent approximately 81% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig single-cup brewing systems and sales of K-Cups to our installed base of brewers are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the acceptance of Keurig single-cup brewing systems or sales of our K-Cups would materially adversely affect us. Keurig’s single cup brewing system competes against all sellers of coffeemakers, including companies such as Bunn-O-Matic Corporation, Mars, Inc., Jarden Corporation, Conair, Inc., Phillips Electronics NV and Robert Bosch GmbH. The Company also competes within the small but growing single-cup segment of the coffeemaker industry with other single-cup coffee and tea delivery systems, including: FLAVIA® Beverage Systems (manufactured and marketed by Mars, Inc.), the TASSIMO beverage system (manufactured and marketed by Robert Bosch GmbH and Kraft Foods, Inc.), the SENSEO® brewing system (manufactured and marketed by Philips Electronics NV and Sara Lee Corporation) and a number of additional single-cup pod brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig single-cup brewing systems and K-Cups, and accordingly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third parties, the successful 7 Table of Contents independent development by third parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. Many factors bear upon the exclusive ownership and exploitation right to intellectual properties, including, without limitation, prior rights of third parties, nonuse and/or nonenforcement by us, and/or related entities. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, which include the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents and other trade secrets and know how relating to our technology. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products, and certain patents of ours will expire in the near future. In the United States, we have patents expiring between 2012 and 2017 associated with the K-Cup portion packs presently used in Keurig brewers. We also have pending patent applications associated with current K-Cup® portion packs technology. These applications may not issue, or if they issue, they may not be enforceable, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Additionally, we have a number of portion pack patents that extend to 2021 but which we have elected not to commercialize yet and may never commercialize. In addition, Keurig continues to invest in further innovation in portion packs and brewing technology and takes steps it believes are appropriate to protect all such innovation. We are prepared to protect our patents vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation we institute to protect our intellectual property rights given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially adversely affect us. In addition, the validity, enforceability and value of our intellectual property depends in part on the continued maintenance and prosecution of such rights through applications, maintenance documents, and other filings, and rights may be lost through the intentional or inadvertent failure to make such necessary filings. Similarly, third parties may allege that our activities violate their intellectual properties. To the extent we are required to defend our self against such a claim, no assurance can be given that we will prevail. Such defense could be costly and materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Competition in specialty coffee is intense and could affect our sales and profitability. The specialty coffee business is highly fragmented. Competition in specialty coffee is increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the marketplace. In addition, we believe that maintaining and developing our brands, including Green Mountain Coffee®, Keurig® and Tully’s Coffee® and our licensed co-branded Newman’s Own Organic® coffees, are important to our success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase to the extent that competitors offer products similar to ours. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources and access to capital than we do. Our primary competitors in specialty coffee include Dunkin’ Donuts, New England Coffee Company, Peet’s Coffee & Tea, Starbucks Corporation, The J.M. Smucker Company (with the Millstone ® brand and The Folgers Coffee Company subsidiary) and Kraft Foods, Inc. (with the Gevalia ® Kaffe brand). There are numerous smaller, regional brands that also compete in the specialty coffee business. In addition, we compete indirectly against all other coffee brands in the marketplace. A number of nationwide coffee marketers, such as The Folgers Coffee Company (a subsidiary of The J.M Smucker Company), Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestlé USA, Procter & Gamble, Inc., and Sara Lee Corporation are distributing premium coffee brands in supermarkets. These premium coffee brands may serve as substitutes for our coffee. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors in specialty coffee, including by developing and maintaining our brands, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of specialty coffee, and accordingly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected. Because all of our single-cup brewers are manufactured by a single manufacturer in China, a significant disruption in the operation of this manufacturer or political unrest in China could materially adversely affect us. We have only one manufacturer of single-cup brewers. Any disruption in production or inability of our manufacturer to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other 8 Table of Contents causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Furthermore, our manufacturer is located in China. This exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China, or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect us. Product recalls and/or product liability may adversely impact us. We are subject to regulation by a variety of regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. In the event our manufacturer of single-cup brewers, which is located in China, does not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, we might not identify a deficiency before brewers ship to our customers. The failure of our third party manufacturer to produce merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and brands and lead to customer litigation against us. If our manufacturer is unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or recall those products at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to recover costs related to product recalls. We may not be able to enter into license agreements with coffee roasters and other third parties to manufacture, distribute and sell K-Cups® or maintain our current license agreements, or it may be expensive to do so. In addition, our current licensees may fail to perform their obligations under existing licensing agreements. We license the right to manufacture, distribute and sell K-Cups on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis to gourmet coffee roasters and tea packers in return for royalty payments from the licensees when they ship the K-Cups. Although many licensees are willing to enter into such licensing agreements, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be negotiated on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, our current licensees may fail to perform their obligations under such licensing agreements due to operational disruptions, economic hardship or bankruptcy. Our failure to enter into similar licensing agreements in the future or the failure of our licensees to perform their obligations under existing license agreements could limit our ability to develop and sell our products and could cause our business to suffer. We also have an exclusive coffee license agreement with Newman’s Own® Organics. We produce a line of several co-branded Newman’s Own Organics coffees under the Newman’s Own Organics and Green Mountain Coffee® brand names. In addition, from time to time, we enter into licensing agreements to allow for the development, marketing and sale of single-cup brewing systems by other companies. We recently announced license and distribution agreements with Conair Corporation for the Mr. Coffee® brand and Jarden Corporation for the Cuisinart® brand. The failure to maintain these agreements could adversely impact our future growth. Our increasing reliance on a limited number of specialty farms could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. Because an increasing amount of our supply of Arabica coffee beans comes from specifically identified specialty farms, estates, and cooperatives, we are more dependent upon a limited number of suppliers than some of our competitors. In fiscal 2009, approximately 41% of our green coffee purchases were “farm-identified”. The timing of these purchases is dictated by when the coffee becomes available (after the annual crop), which does not always coincide with the period in which we need green coffee to fulfill customer demand. This can lead to higher and more variable inventory levels. Any deterioration of our relationship with these suppliers, or problems experienced by these suppliers, could lead to inventory shortages. In such case, we may not be able to fulfill the demand of existing customers, supply new customers, or expand other channels of distribution. A raw material shortage could result in decreased revenue or could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. 9 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent on sales of specialty coffee, and if demand for specialty coffee decreases, our business would suffer. Substantially all of our revenues are dependent on demand for specialty coffee. In addition, demand for specialty coffee is a driving factor in the sales of our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems. Demand for specialty coffee and demand for our Keurig single-cup brewing systems is affected by many factors, including: • Changes in consumer tastes and preferences; • Changes in consumer lifestyles; • National, regional and local economic conditions; • Perceptions or concerns about the environmental impact of our products; • Demographic trends; and • Perceived or actual health benefits or risks. Because we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee or our product offerings would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for our specialty coffee decreases, our sales would decrease and we would be materially adversely affected. Our roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our coffee and, therefore, essential to our various brands. Because our roasting methods cannot be patented, we would be unable to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods became known. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brands could be diminished and we could lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors could develop roasting methods that are more advanced than ours, which could also harm our competitive position. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within the Company without effective replacements, our operations could suffer. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence J. Blanford, and the other members of our management team. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Blanford that expires on May 3, 2012. If Mr. Blanford or the other members of our management team leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to operate our business. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. In addition, future disruptions in the financial markets, such as have been recently experienced, could affect our ability to obtain new or additional debt financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all), and have other adverse effects on us. We have a $225 million revolving credit facility. On June 29, 2009, we exercised our increase option in the form of a $50 million term loan, to be amortized at the rate of 10% annually, commencing on September 30, 2009. All borrowings under the credit agreement, including the outstanding balance under the term loan, are due on December 3, 2012. In addition, on June 29, 2009, we amended the credit facility to remove the capital expenditures limitation covenant and adjusted the definition of the fixed charge coverage ratio to modify the capital expenditures captured in the definition to 50% of unfinanced capital expenditures. As of September 26, 2009 approximately $50 million was outstanding under our term loan and $28 million was outstanding on our revolving line of credit under this credit facility. The incurrence of debt under our credit facility could adversely affect our business. Our debt obligations could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 10 Table of Contents • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • Impair our rights to our intellectual property, which have been pledged as collateral under our credit facility, upon the occurrence of a default; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • Limit, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds and have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements because such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting, manufacturing or distribution capabilities could materially adversely affect us. We currently roast our coffee at three facilities: Waterbury, Vermont; Knoxville, Tennessee; and Seattle, Washington. In addition, as part of the Timothy’s acquisition on November 13, 2009, we added a fourth manufacturing facility in Toronto, Canada. We expect to be able to meet current and forecasted demand for the near term. However, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current roasting capabilities internally or acquire additional roasting capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. Significant interruption in the operation of our current facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. In addition, we and other licensed coffee roasters manufacture the K-Cups® sold for use with our single-cup brewer systems. We manufacture K-Cups at our Vermont, Tennessee and Washington State facilities, and any significant disruption in our or our licensees ability to manufacture adequate quantities of K-Cups to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We currently have three distribution facilities, one located adjacent to our roasting facility in Waterbury, Vermont, another located in Essex, Vermont and a third at our facility in Knoxville, Tennessee. Any disruption to our distribution facilities could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, because we have our coffee roasting and primary distribution facilities in Vermont, our ability to ship coffee and receive shipments of raw materials could be adversely affected during winter months as a result of severe winter conditions and storms. Our order processing and fulfillment systems may fail or limit user traffic, which could cause us to lose sales. We processes all customer orders through an order fulfillment facility in Waterbury, Vermont. We are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment at this facility in effective working order and to protect against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. In addition, growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the capacity of our systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. We have experienced capacity constraints in the past that have resulted in decreased levels of customer service, such as increased customer call center wait times and delays in service to customers for limited periods of time. Although we continually review and consider upgrades to our order fulfillment infrastructure and provide for system redundancies to limit the likelihood of systems overload or failure, substantial damage to our systems or a systems failure that causes interruptions for a number of days could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unsuccessful in updating and expanding our order fulfillment infrastructure, our ability to grow may be constrained. 11 Table of Contents Our reliance on a single order fulfillment company for our Keurig subsidiary’s at home business exposes us to significant credit risk. We rely on a single order fulfillment company, M.Block & Sons, Inc., to process the majority of orders for our At-Home (AH) single-cup business sold through retailers. We sell a significant number of brewers and K-Cups® to this third party fulfillment company for re-sale to certain retailers. Receivables from this company were approximately 51% of our consolidated accounts receivable balance at September 26, 2009. Accordingly, we are subject to significant credit risk regarding the creditworthiness of this company. The inability of this company to perform its obligations to us, whether due to a deterioration in its financial condition or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with this company is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third party to provide these services to use in a timely manner or on favorable terms. Because we rely heavily on common carriers to deliver our coffee and brewers, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee and brewers to our customers and distribution centers. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our products in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: • Have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee, hot cocoa or tea shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brands and reputation; • Result in the disposal of an amount of coffee, hot cocoa or tea that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and • Require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our acquisition of certain assets from Tully’s Coffee Corporation was completed on March 27, 2009, and our acquisition of the wholesale business of Timothy’s Coffee of the World, Inc., was completed on November 13, 2009 . The failure to successfully integrate Tully’s and Timothy’s wholesale businesses into our business may cause us to fail to realize the expected synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from these acquisitions, which could significantly affect us. The integration of these wholesale businesses into our business presents significant challenges and risks to our business, including: • Distraction of management from regular business concerns; • Assimilation and retention of employees and customers of Tully’s and Timothy’s; • Managing the West Coast-based Tully’s wholesale operations and employees, both of which are distant from our current headquarters and operation locations; • Managing the Canadian-based Timothy’s wholesale operations and employees, both of which are distant from our current headquarters and operation locations; • Expansion into new geographies; • Integration of technologies, services and products; and • Achievement of appropriate internal control over financial reporting. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of these businesses into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from these acquisitions. We may fail to 12 Table of Contents grow and build profits in the Tully’s or Timothy’s business lines or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customer service or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Tully’s has a history of operating losses, and our ability to achieve and then maintain the profitability of its business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectation to achieve profitability from this business may not be realized, and losses on the Tully’s business may continue as we integrate its operations into our business. Strategic investments or acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We may seek to grow our business through opportunistic strategic investments or acquisitions. From time to time we may be in various stages of negotiation with parties relating to the possible investment in or acquisition of businesses or assets, including our current discussions with Diedrich Coffee, Inc. We are unable to predict whether our negotiations will result in any agreement to invest in or acquire a business or an asset or whether any such transaction will be consummated on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we may pursue an acquisition that is not accretive initially due to its long term strategic value. In addition, to the extent we are successful in completing one or more opportunistic strategic investments or acquisitions, we would face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to retain relationships with customers and business partners. Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors, our operating results are subject to quarterly fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. Risks Related to our Industry Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or cost of materials used to produce our brewers could reduce our gross margin and profit. We utilize a combination of outside brokers and direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives and cooperative groups for our supply of green coffees. Outside brokers provide the largest supply of our green coffee. The supply and price of coffee are subject to high volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market at a price referred to as the “c” price (the price per pound quoted by the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange), coffee of the quality we are seeking tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” above the “c” price, depending upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors, such as weather, pest damage, politics and economics in the producing countries. Cyclical swings in commodity markets are common and the most recent years have been especially volatile for the “c” price of coffee. The “c” price of coffee declined during fiscal 2009, consistent with most other commodity markets, as compared to fiscal 2008 when “c” prices had reached record levels for the 5-year historical period. It is expected that coffee prices will remain volatile in the coming years. In addition to the “c” 13 Table of Contents price, coffee of the quality sought by us tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” above the “c” price. These differentials also are subject to significant variations and have generally been on the rise in recent years. We generally try to pass on coffee price increases and decreases to our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on these cost increases to customers without losses in sales volume or gross margin. Additionally, even if higher green coffee costs can be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis by price increases, this still lowers our gross margin as a percentage of sales. Similarly, rapid and sharp decreases in the cost of green coffee could also force us to lower sales prices before realizing cost reductions in our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. Significant fluctuations in the cost of other commodities, such as steel, petroleum and copper influence prices of plastic and other components used in manufacturing our coffee brewers. Approximately 96% of Keurig brewers shipped in fiscal 2009, were sold to the AH channel at our cost with essentially no gross margin. With respect to the Keurig single-cup AH system, we are continuing to pursue a model designed to penetrate the marketplace, a component of which is to sell brewers and accessories essentially at cost, and are focused on driving new customers into single serve coffee. Any rapid, sharp increases in our cost of manufacturing AH brewers would be unlikely to lead us to raise sales prices to offset such increased cost as our current strategy is to drive penetration and not risk slowing down the rate of sales growth to competitors or before realizing cost reductions in our purchase commitments. There can be no assurance that we will able to maintain our gross margin when such fluctuations occur. Decreased availability of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could jeopardize our ability to maintain or expand our business. We roast over 40 different types of green coffee beans to produce more than 100 coffee selections. If one type of green coffee bean were to become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we believe we could substitute another type of coffee of equal or better quality meeting a similar taste profile. However, a worldwide supply shortage of the high-quality Arabica coffees we purchase could have a material adverse impact on us. Worldwide or regional shortages of high-quality Arabica coffees can be caused by multiple factors, such as weather, pest damage and economics in the producing countries. In addition, the political situation in many of the Arabica coffee growing regions, including Africa, Indonesia, and Central and South America, can be unstable, and such instability could affect our ability to purchase coffee from those regions. If Arabica coffee beans from a region become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to discontinue particular coffee types and blends or substitute coffee beans from other regions in our blends. Frequent substitutions and changes in our coffee product lines could lead to cost increases, customer alienation and fluctuations in our gross margins. While production of commercial grade coffee is generally on the rise, many industry experts are concerned about the ability of specialty coffee production to keep pace with demand. Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase are not readily available on the commodity markets. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high-quality Arabica coffee beans. In particular, the supply of Fair Trade Certified™ coffees is limited. We may not be able to purchase enough Fair Trade Certified coffees to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand for such coffees, which could impact our revenue growth. The recent adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. Our revenues and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which have recently deteriorated due to current worldwide economic conditions. This economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely impact our revenues, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, 14 Table of Contents or otherwise implement our business strategy and further diversify the geographical concentration of our operations. For example, we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee and a shift in consumer demand away from specialty coffee due to economic or other consumer preferences would harm our business. Keurig brewer sales may also decline as a result of the economic environment. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps, and the risk of counterparty default is currently higher in light of existing capital market and economic conditions. Our products must comply with government regulation. The USDA adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program which became effective in February 2001, and fully implemented in October 2002. Amendments to Canada’s Organic Products regulations as administered by the Canada Organic Office of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency became effective in December 2008. Although the implementation period has not yet been defined, we will be required to apply for recertification of our organic products under the new regulations and update any affected packaging. In addition, similar regulations and requirements exist in the other countries in which we may market our products. Our organic products are covered by these various regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labeling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products, the loss of any of which could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “fair trade,” to differentiate our products from others. The Newman’s Own® Organics product line, combined with the Specialty Coffee business unit’s own branded Fair Traded Certified™ coffee line, represented a combined 30% of the Specialty Coffee business unit’s total consolidated sales volume in fiscal year 2009. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 