Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business, its future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. The Company’s financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of K-Cup portion packs. A significant percentage of our total revenue has increasingly been attributable to royalties and other revenue from sales of K-Cups for use with the Company’s Keurig single-cup brewing systems. In fiscal 2008, total consolidated net sales of K-Cups, Keurig brewers and royalties earned upon shipment of K-Cups by licensed roasters represent approximately 70% of consolidated net sales of the Company. Continued acceptance of K-Cup single brewer systems and sales of K-Cups to our installed base of brewers is a significant factor in the Company’s growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the acceptance of K-Cups could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability, and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third parties, the successful independent development by third parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations, or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents and other trade secrets and know how relating to our technology. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products and certain patents of ours will expire in the future. In the United States, we have patents expiring between 2012 and 2017 associated with the K-Cup portion packs presently used in Keurig brewers. We also have pending patent applications associated with current K-Cups 7 Table of Contents which, if ultimately issued, would have expiration dates that extend to 2023. Additionally, we have a number of portion pack patents that extend to 2021 but which we have elected not to commercialize yet. In addition, Keurig continues to invest in further innovation in portion packs and brewing technology and takes appropriate steps to protect all such innovation. We are prepared to protect our patents vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation we institute to protect our intellectual property rights given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, the validity, enforceability and value of our intellectual property depends in part on the continued maintenance and prosecution of such rights through applications, maintenance documents, and other filings, and rights may be lost through the intentional or inadvertent failure to make such necessary filings. Competition in the single-cup brewer systems market is intense and could affect the Company’s sales of K-Cups and profitability. The Company is highly dependent on the continued acceptance of the Keurig single-cup brewing system. There are a multitude of competitive single-cup brewing systems available in North America and internationally. Competition in the single-cup brewing system market includes lower-cost brewers that brew coffee packaged in non-patented pods. Many of our current and potential competitors in the single-cup brewer systems market have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources. Our primary competitors in this market are FLAVIA Beverage Systems (manufactured and marketed by Mars), the TASSIMO beverage system (manufactured and marketed by Bosch and Kraft), the SENSEO brewing system (manufactured and marketed by Philips and Sara Lee) and a number of additional single-cup brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors in the single-cup brewer market or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of single-cup brewing systems and K-Cups might be adversely affected. A worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have recently deteriorated due to current worldwide economic. This economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely impact our revenues, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy and further diversify the geographical concentration of our operations. For example, the Company is highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee and a shift in consumer demand away from specialty coffee due to economic or other consumer preferences would harm our business. Keurig brewer sales may also decline as a result of the economic environment. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps and the risk of counterparty default is currently higher in light of existing capital market and economic conditions. If the current economic situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition in the specialty coffee market is intense and could affect the Company’s profitability. The specialty coffee market is highly fragmented. Competition in the specialty coffee market is increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the specialty coffee market. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources. Our primary competitors in specialty coffee sales include Gevalia Kaffe (Kraft Foods), Dunkin’ Donuts, Peet’s Coffee & Tea, Millstone (Procter & Gamble), New England Coffee Company and Starbucks. There are numerous smaller, regional brands that also compete in this category. In addition, we compete indirectly against all other coffee brands on the market. A number of nationwide coffee marketers, such as Kraft Foods, Procter & Gamble, Sara Lee and Nestlé, are distributing premium coffee brands in supermarkets. These premium coffee brands may serve as substitutes for our coffee. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened. 8 Table of Contents Because our Company has all of its single-cup brewers manufactured from a single supplier in China, a significant disruption in the operation of this supplier or political unrest in China could potentially disrupt our business. We have only one supplier of single-cup brewers. Any disruption in production or inability of our supplier to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Furthermore, our single supplier of single-cup brewers is located in China. This exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China, or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation. Product recalls and/or product liability may adversely impact our operations. We are subject to regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. In the event our supplier of single-cup brewers, which is located in China, does not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our customers. The failure of suppliers to manufacture merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and brands and lead to customer litigation against us. If our supplier is unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or recall those products at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to recover costs related to product recalls. We may not be able to enter into license agreements with suppliers to manufacture K-Cups or maintain our current license agreements, or it may be expensive to do so. We license the right to manufacture and market K-Cups on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis to gourmet coffee roasters and tea packers in return for royalty payments from the licensees when they ship the K-Cups. Although many licensees are willing to enter into such licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into similar licensing agreements in the future could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. We also have an exclusive licensing agreement with Newman’s Own Organics. We produce a line of several co-branded Newman’s Own Organics coffees under the Newman’s Own Organics and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters brand names. The failure to maintain this license agreement could cause our business to suffer. Increases in the cost of materials used to produce our brewers or the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or could reduce GMC’s gross margin and profit. Cyclical swings in commodity markets are common and 2008 was an especially volatile year, with the “c” price of coffee climbing to record levels until mid-year, then declining with most other commodity markets in the second half of calendar 2008. It is expected that coffee prices will remain volatile in the coming years. In addition to the “c” price, coffee of the quality sought by GMC tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” above the “c” price. These differentials also are subject to significant variations and have generally been on the rise. We generally try to pass on coffee price increases and decreases to our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on these cost increases to customers without losses in sales volume or gross margin. Additionally, if higher green coffee costs can be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis by price increases, this trend still lowers our gross margin on a percentage of sales basis. Similarly, rapid, sharp decreases in the cost of green coffee could also force us to lower sales prices before realizing cost reductions in our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. 9 Table of Contents Significant fluctuations in the cost of other commodities such as steel, petroleum and copper also influence prices of plastic and other components used in the manufacturing of our coffee brewers. Approximately 90% of Keurig brewers shipped in fiscal 2008 were sold to the At Home channel at our cost with essentially no gross margin. With respect to the Keurig single-cup At Home system, we are continuing to pursue a market penetration model and are focused on driving new customers into the single serve segment. Any rapid, sharp increases in the cost of At Home brewers would likely lead us to not raise sales prices to offset such gross margin dollar declines as our current strategy is to drive penetration and not risk slowing down the rate of sales growth to competitors or before realizing cost reductions in our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. There can be no assurance that we will able to maintain our gross margin when such fluctuations occur. Decreased availability of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could jeopardize our Company’s ability to maintain or expand our business. We roast over 40 different types of green coffee beans to produce more than 100 coffee selections. If one type of green coffee bean were to become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we believe we could substitute another type of coffee of equal or better quality meeting a similar taste profile. However, a worldwide supply shortage of the high-quality Arabica coffees we purchase could have an adverse impact on our Company. The political situation in many of the Arabica coffee growing regions, including Africa, Indonesia, and Central and South America, can be unstable, and such instability could affect our ability to purchase coffee from those regions. If Arabica coffee beans from a region become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to discontinue particular coffee types and blends or substitute coffee beans from other regions in our blends. Frequent substitutions and changes in our coffee product lines could lead to cost increases, customer alienation and fluctuations in our gross margins. While production of commercial grade coffee is generally on the rise, many industry experts are concerned about the ability of specialty coffee production to keep pace with demand. Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase are not readily available on the commodity markets. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high-quality Arabica coffee beans. In particular, the supply of Fair Trade Certified coffees is limited. We may not be able to purchase enough Fair Trade Certified coffees to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand for such coffees, which could impact our revenue growth. Our increasing reliance on a limited number of specialty farms could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. Because an increasing amount of our supply of Arabica coffee beans comes from specifically identified specialty farms, estates, cooperatives, we are more dependent upon a limited amount of suppliers. In fiscal 2008, 40% of green coffee purchases were “farm-identified”. The timing of these purchases is dictated by when the coffee becomes available (after the annual crop), which does not always coincide with the period we need green coffee to fulfill customer demand. This can lead to higher and more variable inventory levels. Any deterioration of our relationship with these suppliers could lead to inventory shortages. In such case, we may not be able to fulfill the demand of existing customers, supply new customers or expand other channels of distribution. A raw material shortage could result in decreased revenue or could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. The Company depends on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within the Company without effective replacements, our operations could suffer. The success of our Company’s business is dependent to a large degree on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence J. Blanford and the other members of our management team and our coffee roasters and purchasers. We have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer that expires on May 3, 2012. If our President and Chief Executive Officer or the other members of the Company’s management team leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. 10 Table of Contents Because a substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is related to sales to certain major customers and retailers, the loss of one or more of these customers or retailers could materially harm our business. Our Company sells a significant portion of Keurig brewing systems for the home to a relatively limited number of key retailers and department stores. The loss of one or more of these major retailers or a decrease in orders from one of these retailers could materially affect our sales of brewer systems and our business. In addition, the Company receives a significant portion of revenue in each fiscal period from a relatively limited number of customers, and that trend is likely to continue. The loss of one or more of these major customers or a decrease in orders from one of these customers could materially affect our business. Our credit facility allows us to increase our outstanding indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to operate our business. The Company has a $225 million revolving credit facility which we have the ability to increase from time to time by up to an additional $50 million, subject to receipt of lender commitments and other conditions precedent. As of September 29, 2008 approximately $123.5 million was outstanding under this credit facility. We intend to fund the $40.3 million purchase price for the Tully’s acquisition from our revolving credit facility. The incurrence of debt under our credit facility could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our debt obligations could also: – Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; – Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; – Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; – Limit, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements because such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting facilities, manufacturing capabilities or distribution facilities could potentially disrupt our operations. We currently have only one coffee roasting facility. We will have additional roasting facilities when we are able to begin roasting at our Knoxville, Tennessee facility and at such time as when the Tully’s acquisition closes. A significant interruption in the operation of our current roasting facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. In addition, we and other licensed coffee roasters manufacture the K-Cups sold for use with our single-cup brewer systems. We manufacture K-Cups at our Vermont facilities and at our Knoxville, Tennessee facility and any significant disruption in our or our licensees ability to manufacture adequate quantities of K-Cups to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. We currently have three distribution facilities, one located adjacent to our roasting facility in Waterbury, Vermont, an additional distribution facility located in Essex, Vermont and our facility in Knoxville, Tennessee. Any disruption to our distribution facilities could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, because our coffee roasting and primary distribution facilities are located in Vermont, our ability to ship coffee and receive shipments or raw materials could be adversely affected during winter months as a result of severe winter conditions and storms. 11 Table of Contents GMC’s roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our coffee and, therefore, essential to our brand. Because our roasting methods cannot be patented, we would be unable to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods became known. If the Company’s competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brand could be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors could be able to develop roasting methods that are more advanced than GMC’s roasting methods, which could also harm our competitive position. Our order processing and fulfillment systems may fail or limit user traffic, which could cause us to lose sales. Additionally, our reliance on a single order fulfillment company for our Keurig subsidiary’s home market exposes our Company to significant credit risk. GMC processes all customer orders for our products through our order fulfillment facility in Waterbury, Vermont. We are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in this facility in effective working order and to protect against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. In addition, growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the capacity of our systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. We have experienced capacity constraints in the past that have resulted in decreased levels of service delivery such as increased customer call center wait times and delays in service to customers for limited periods of time. Although we continually review and consider upgrades to our order fulfillment infrastructure and provide for system redundancies to limit the likelihood of systems overload or failure, substantial damage to our systems or a systems failure that causes interruptions for a number of days could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unsuccessful in updating and expanding our order fulfillment infrastructure our ability to grow may be constrained. Keurig relies on an order fulfillment company to process the majority of its orders for the home market sold through retailers, including collection of all accounts receivable. Receivables from this order fulfillment company were approximately 36% of our consolidated accounts receivable balance at year end. Any material disruption in the operation of this third party company could adversely affect our business. Because the Company relies heavily on common carriers to deliver our coffee and brewers, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. The Company relies on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee and brewers to our customers and distribution centers. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee and brewers in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: – Have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brand and reputation; – Result in the disposal of an amount of coffee that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and – Require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause the Company’s revenue and profits to suffer. Our proposed acquisition of the Tully’s coffee brand from Tully’s Coffee Corporation may fail to close or there could be substantial delays before the acquisition is completed. On September 15, 2008, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Tully’s Coffee Corporation to acquire the Tully’s coffee brand and the Tully’s wholesale business for a total purchase price of $40.3 million, subject to adjustment at closing. The Company will finance the cash purchase through its existing $225 million senior revolving credit facility and has received the required bank consent. This transaction is subject to customary 12 Table of Contents closing conditions including approval of the Tully’s shareholders, and is expected to close in the next few months. If we are unable to complete the acquisition, we will not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and would have devoted substantial resources and management attention without realizing any accompanying benefit. Assuming we close the acquisition of the Tully’s wholesale business, our failure to successfully integrate the Tully’s wholesale business into our business may cause us to fail to realize the expected synergies and other benefits of the acquisition, which could adversely affect our future results. The integration of the Tully’s wholesale business into our business presents significant challenges and risks to our business, including: • distraction of management from regular business concerns; • assimilation and retention of employees and customers of Tully’s; • managing the West Coast based Tully’s wholesale operations and employees, both of which are distant from our current headquarters and operation locations; • expansion into new geographical markets; • integration of technologies, services and products; and • achievement of appropriate internal control over financial reporting. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Tully’s into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. We may fail to grow and build profits in the Tully’s business line or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customers or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Tully’s has a history of operating losses, and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability of its business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to increase its profitability may not be realized, and Tully’s losses may continue as we integrate its operations into our business. If Tully’s revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if its operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase its profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 