Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You are cautioned that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those suggested by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time, both verbally and in writing. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and recognize that other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Our results of operations have been, and will continue to be affected by, among other things: • the successful opening and operating of new stores, and remodels/remerchandising of existing stores, • fluctuations in quarterly results of operations and stock price, • economic conditions, • competition, • labor issues, • loss of key management, • government regulations, and • changes in and performance by suppliers, distributors and manufacturers. The successful opening and operating of new stores, and remodels/remerchandising of existing stores. We plan to continue growing primarily through the opening of new stores. Achieving this goal is contingent on various conditions, and there is no assurance that our growth strategy will result in greater sales and profitability. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection gradually and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than more mature stores. New stores opened experience operating losses for the first 12 to 18 months of operation, or possibly longer, in accordance with historical trends; although certain stores are projected to incur operating losses for six to 12 months. 7 Table of Contents Our plan is to continue to complete significant remodels and remerchandising of existing stores. Remodels and remerchandising typically cause short-term disruption in sales volume and related increases in certain expenses as a percentage of sales, such as payroll. We cannot predict whether sales disruptions and the related impact on earnings may be greater than projected in future remodeled or remerchandised stores. Changes in merchandising and marketing strategies may also impact an individual store and overall Company results. The construction or acquisition of new stores, remodeling/remerchandising of existing stores, as well as completion of capital purchases of new technology systems required for efficient operation of our business require substantial capital expenditures. In the past, cash generated from operations, debt and equity financing proceeds have funded our capital expenditures. These sources of capital may not be available to us in the future. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources. Fluctuations in quarterly results of operations and stock price. Our quarterly results of operations may differ materially from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons, including the timing and success of new store openings, overall store performance, changes in the economy, seasonality, uninsured losses, including loss of sales caused by natural disasters, the timing of holidays, significant increases or decreases in prices for, or availability of, goods and services, competitive pressure, labor disturbances, shrink and spoilage, fluctuations in profit margins for discontinued items, as well as other factors mentioned in this section. Our stock price has been, and continues to be, fairly volatile. Our stock price is affected by our quarterly and year-end results, whether those results are consistent with the expectations of financial analysts and investors, financial results of our major competitors and suppliers, general market and economic conditions and publicity about our competitors, our vendors, our industry, or us. Volatility in our stock price may affect our future ability to renegotiate our existing credit agreement or enter into a new borrowing relationship, or affect our ability to obtain new store sites on favorable economic terms. Economic conditions. Downturns in general economic conditions in communities, states, regions or the nation as a whole can affect our results of operations. While purchases of food generally do not decrease in a slower economy, consumers may choose less expensive alternative sources for food purchases. Increases in fuel commodity prices may change consumer shopping habits and also increase the costs that we pay for construction and remodels, products, supplies, utilities and distribution, decreasing our net profits. In addition, downturns in the economy may make the disposition of excess properties, for which we continue to pay rent and other carrying costs, substantially more difficult as the markets become saturated with vacant space and market rents decrease below our contractual rent obligations. Competition. We compete with multi-unit and independent natural foods, specialty and conventional grocers. As competition in certain markets intensifies, our results of operations may be negatively impacted through loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price modifications, competition for qualified employees and disruptions in our employee base. Loss of key management. Our future direction and success is dependent in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified executives to meet our future growth needs and on the continued services of certain key executive officers. Loss of any key officer may have an adverse affect on current operations and future growth programs. We face intense competition for qualified executives, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. Our compensation package for key management includes long-term equity incentives, such as stock options and restricted stock. Fluctuations in quarterly results of operations and stock price could diminish the value of our equity awards, putting us at a competitive disadvantage in recruiting and retention, or forcing us to use more cash compensation. We may not be able to attract and retain key executive personnel as necessary to operate our business. Government regulations. We are subject to a myriad of laws, regulations and ordinances at the local, state and national level governing the operation of our stores and support facilities, and our ability to comply with these laws could negatively affect our store sales and operations, or could delay the opening of a new store. Such laws include the following: state and federal wage and hour laws, which may result in increased minimum wage levels, required payment of overtime to employees classified as salaried employees and increased benefit costs; National Organic Program regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), which may require different handling of certain products or the exclusion of certain products from the definition of “organic”, each of which could limit product supply, increase costs or reduce revenues; state and federal health and sanitation regulations, which may require substantial equipment or tenant improvement modifications at added expense or increase labor costs and costs of food handling or impact the ability to supply from commissaries across state lines; local and state laws restricting the availability of liquor licenses and liquor sales, which may reduce some stores’ sales; and land use and zoning regulations, which may impact hours of operation, hours when shipments may be received and the ability to provide certain services or products, which may reduce revenues or increase direct store operating costs. Implementation of and changes to such laws can have a material impact on our sales volume, costs of goods and direct store expenses. In addition, from time to time we are audited by various governmental agencies for compliance with existing laws, and we could be subject to fines or operational modifications as a result of noncompliance. 8 Table of Contents Changes in and performance by suppliers, distributors and manufacturers. In January of 2004, we executed a five-year primary distribution agreement with UNFI. We purchase approximately 30% of our total products from UNFI, and the remainder from small vendors and secondary and tertiary distributors. In addition, in 2004 we opened a DC in Riverside, California. At the end of fiscal 2006, the majority of our stores west of the Mississippi River were receiving substantially all of their produce, bulk items, private label groceries, and selected other items from our DC. Significant disruptions in operations of our distributors or at our DC could materially impact our operations by disrupting store-level merchandise selection, resulting in reduced sales. Also, from time to time, we may experience product shortages due to the impact of adverse weather conditions, such as drought or flood, or disruptions in the supply chain from competition for products from other retailers, product shortages and transportation disruptions. These shortages may result in decreased product selection and increased out-of-stock conditions, as well as higher product costs, which result in decreased sales or margins. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 