Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of Keurig® Brewing systems and portion packs. A significant percentage of our total revenue is attributable to sales of portion packs for use with our Keurig® Brewing systems, including earlier reservoir model appliances and our newly launched Keurig® 2.0 brewers. For the year ended September 27, 2014, total consolidated net sales of portion packs and Keurig® brewers and related accessories represented approximately 94% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig® Brewing systems and sales of portion packs to an increasing installed base of brewers are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the sale of Keurig® Brewing systems or sales of our portion packs would materially adversely affect us. Keurig® Brewing systems compete against all sellers of coffeemakers. These companies include Bunn-O-Matic Corporation, Mars, Inc. (through its FLAVIA® unit), Conair, Inc., Hamilton Beach / Proctor-Silex, Inc., Jarden Corporation, Nestle S.A. (including the Nescafe Dolce-Gusto® beverage system), Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., Starbucks Corporation (including its Verismo® brewing system), Whirlpool Corporation, two brewing systems and brands to be merged in 2015 in joint venture under parent JAB Holding Co., (including the SENSEO® brewing system, owned by D.E. Master Blenders 1973 N.V. and the TASSIMO® brewing system, owned by Mondelez International, Inc.), as well as a number of additional brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology, quality of products, desired brands or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig® Brewing systems and portion packs, and accordingly, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our ongoing investment in the cold platform is risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses. We have invested and expect to continue to invest significantly in our Keurig Cold™ beverage system, our cold brewing platform technology, and related infrastructure and product development. Such endeavors involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from our existing hot platform operations, a delayed launch, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the new cold platform, inadequate return of capital on our investments, not accurately predicting consumer tastes and the market opportunity for a cold platform, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence and planning of such strategies and offerings. Because the introduction of and investment in a new platform is risky, no assurance can be given that the cold system will ultimately be successful and will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Continued innovation and the successful development and timely launch of new platforms, products and product extensions are critical to our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products, including new platforms such as our cold technology. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Additionally, our new product introductions are often time sensitive, and thus failure to deliver innovations on schedule could be detrimental to our ability to successfully launch such new products, in addition to potentially harming our reputation and customer loyalty. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key marketplaces and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing marketplaces. Changes in the beverage environment and retail landscape could impact our financial results. The beverage environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the beverage retail landscape is very dynamic and constantly evolving, not only in emerging and developing marketplaces, where modern trade is growing at a faster pace than traditional trade outlets, but also in developed marketplaces, where discounters and value stores, as well as the volume of transactions through e-commerce, are growing at a rapid pace. If we are unable to successfully adapt to the rapidly changing environment and retail landscape, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected. Increased competition could hurt our business. The beverage industry is intensely competitive and we compete with respect to product, quality, convenience and price. We face significant competition in each of our channels and marketplaces. We compete with major international beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous companies that are primarily local in operation. Our beverages also compete against local or regional brands as well as against private label brands developed by retailers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the global marketplace or in various local marketplaces may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. Consolidation in the retail channel or the loss of key retail or grocery customers could adversely affect our financial performance. Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. Larger retailers may seek lower prices from us, may demand increased marketing or promotional expenditures, and may be more likely to use their distribution networks to introduce and develop private label brands, any of which could negatively affect the Company's profitability. In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to maintain good relationships with key retail and grocery customers. The loss of one or more of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, because of the competitive environment facing retailers, many of our customers have increasingly sought to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs, pricing concessions, more favorable trade terms and increased emphasis on private label products. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to customers, our margins would be reduced. Further, if we are unable to continue to offer terms that are acceptable to our significant customers or our customers determine that they need fewer inventories to service consumers; these customers could reduce purchases of our products or may increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean Arabica coffee and related coffee products. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and recently the price of coffee has been increasing, and may continue to increase significantly due to factors described below. The Arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "C" price of coffee. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the "C" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality Arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "C" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. These are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease (such as coffee rust), general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines. We may be able to pass some or all raw materials, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. If we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain profitable, strategic relationships with well-recognized brands/brand owners such as Caribou Coffee®, Dunkin' Brands, Folgers®, Newman's Own® Organics, Kraft Foods Group, Starbucks® and The Coca-Cola Company®, could adversely impact our future growth and business. We have entered into strategic relationships for the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of portion pack products with well-regarded beverage companies such as Caribou Coffee®, Dunkin' Brands, The J.M. Smucker Company, Newman's Own® Organics, Kraft Foods Group, Starbucks® and The Coca-Cola Company®. As independent companies, our strategic partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our strategic partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own specialty beverage products. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our strategic partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, or if our strategic partners are not satisfied with our brand innovation and development efforts, they may take actions that could adversely impact our overall future profitability and growth, 16 Table of Contents awareness of our Keurig® Brewing systems, and our ability to attract new consumers to the Keurig® Brewing system. If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected. We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives, including the launch of our cold platform. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our hot platform's growth prospects, which are generally driven by volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, on an assessment of the potential price and product mix, and on the launch and ultimate adoption of our cold platform. There can be no assurance that we will achieve, for our hot platform, the required volume or revenue growth or the mix of products and, for our cold platform, a successful launch and adoption by consumers, in each case as would be necessary to achieve our long-term growth objectives. If we are unable to expand our operations in new countries, our long-term growth rate could be negatively affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in new countries, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those countries, our ability to establish operations in those countries or to form strategic business partnerships including with established brands and to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, order processing and fulfillment systems and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in new countries marketplaces must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our existing products or new products currently under development will be accepted in any particular new country or that we will be able to develop new products that will be successful in any particular new country. If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure or successfully implement our business transformation initiative, our business could suffer. We depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations and between our personnel and the personnel of our contract manufacturers, suppliers or other third-party partners. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to streamline business processes and migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide system solution. Our transition to the enterprise-wide system solution commenced in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. There can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with changing business needs, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, product recalls, product liability, sales returns and warranty expense could negatively impact us. We believe our success depends on our ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain the brand image of our existing 17 Table of Contents products, build up brand image for new products and brand extensions, and maintain our corporate reputation. We cannot assure you, however, that our commitment to product safety and quality and our continuing investment in advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products' brand image and on consumer preferences. Product safety or quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination or safety issues, even when false or unfounded, could subject us to product liability and consumer claims, tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Product safety or quality issues or contamination, actual or perceived, may require us from time to time to recall a beverage, brewer or other product from all of the channels in which the affected product was distributed and result in higher than anticipated rates of warranty returns and other returns of goods. Our brand name and image could also be negatively affected by claims made against us by third parties alleging violations of law, including antitrust or competition laws. If we are unable to meet our sustainability targets, consumers may lose trust and confidence in our brand and our Company's commitment to sustainability, and our brand could be damaged. Such issues, recalls, warranty expenses and claims could negatively affect our profitability and brand image. The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining our senior management team could adversely impact our business and financial results. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of our senior management. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business and our ability to timely achieve our strategic initiatives, including the launch of our Keurig Cold™ beverage system. If we are unable to retain and motivate our senior management team sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth and initiatives, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Failure to meet expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the price and volatility of our stock. Failure to meet expectations, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. Obsolete inventory may result in reduced prices or write-downs. We must manage our inventory effectively. As we innovate and introduce new brewers to the marketplace, our existing brewers are at an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If we ultimately determine that we have excess brewers, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Conversely, if new brewers' launches are delayed, we may have insufficient existing brewer inventory to meet our customer demand which could result in lost revenue opportunities and have an adverse impact on our financial results. Risks of inventory obsolescence also exist with our products that are subject to expiration, such as portion pack components and beverage ingredients. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, and inventory expires or becomes unusable prior to its use, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of companies for certain strategic material, product manufacturing and order fulfillment, and currently have a limited number of roasting and manufacturing facilities, so a significant disruption in the operation of any of these companies or in any of these facilities could materially adversely affect us. We have a limited number of suppliers for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs and the processing of certain key ingredients in our portion packs. In addition, a 18 Table of Contents single company manufactures the vast majority of our brewers. We also currently roast and manufacture our coffee and other beverage products in facilities in the United States (in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington, Virginia, and California) and one facility in Canada. Any disruption in operation of these companies or facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster, contractual dispute or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to meet demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current capabilities internally or acquire additional capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, we rely primarily on one order fulfillment entity, M.Block & Sons, Inc. ("MBlock"), to process the majority of orders sold through to retailers, department stores and mass merchants in the United States. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies for the Company's revenue recognition policy on how we recognize revenue on orders processed through fulfillment entities. The inability of MBlock to perform its obligations to us, whether due to deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with MBlock is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third-party to provide these services to us in a timely manner or on favorable terms or that we would be able to internalize the related services effectively or in a timely manner. Our long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs could impair our ability to be flexible in our business without penalty. In order to ensure a continuous supply of high quality raw materials some of our inventory purchase obligations include long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of portion packs. The timing of these may not always coincide with the period in which we need the supplies to fulfill customer demand. This could lead to higher and more variable inventory levels and/or higher raw material costs. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products. Loss of certification within our supply chain or as related to our manufacturing processes could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as "organic" or "Fair Trade," to differentiate some of our products from others, such as the Newman's Own® Organics product line, Green Mountain Coffee® Fair Trade Certified™ coffee line and the Canada segment's Fair Trade Organic Collection. In fiscal 2014, approximately 23% of our coffee purchases were from certified sources. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors such as adverse weather conditions, our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® Brewing systems in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that maybe achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the geographies in which we operate. Unusually warm weather during the winter months may have a temporary decrease on the demand for some of our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. There is inherent risk in forecasting demand due to the uncertainties involved in assessing the current level of maturity of the single-serve component of our business. We set target levels for the manufacture of brewers and portion packs and for the purchase of green coffee in advance of customer orders based upon our forecasts of customer demand. If our forecasts exceed demand, we could experience excess inventory in the short-term, excess manufacturing capacity in the short and long-term, and/or price decreases, all of which could impact our financial performance. Alternatively, if demand exceeds our forecasts significantly beyond our current manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand, which could result in a loss of share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income. Increases or changes in income or indirect tax rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our tax filings for various periods in the jurisdictions in which we do business may be subjected to audit by the relevant tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, including interest and penalties, which are subsequently resolved with the authorities or potentially through the courts. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. Other changes in tax laws, regulations, related interpretations, and tax accounting standards in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. For example, the United States, many countries in the European Union, and other foreign jurisdictions where we do business, are actively considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, which, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Exposure to foreign currency risk and related hedging activities may result in significant losses and fluctuations to our periodic income statements. Our foreign operations are primarily related to our Canada segment, which is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by changes in these or other factors. We also source our green coffee, certain production equipment, and components of our brewers and manufacturing of our brewers from countries outside the United States, which are subject to the same risks described for Canada above. The majority of the transactions conducted by our Canada segment are in the Canadian dollar. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and are positively affected when the United States dollar weakens. Conversely, our Canadian dollar-denominated expenses decrease when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and increase when the United States dollar weakens. Additionally, our assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars are similarly affected when the United States dollar fluctuates against the Canadian dollar. From time to time we engage in transactions involving various derivative instruments to mitigate our foreign currency rate exposures. More specifically, we hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in Canadian dollars. As we expand geographically, we expect to have increasing foreign currency risk associated with cash flows from foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchase commitments, and foreign currency intercompany debt. There can be no assurance, however, that 20 Table of Contents these contracts will effectively protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and we may incur material losses from such hedging transactions. If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption or failure, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation may be damaged. Our businesses involve the collection, storage and transmission of users' personal information. Our efforts to protect such information may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, catastrophic events, employee error or malfeasance or other attempts to harm our systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures in time. We could also experience a loss of critical data and delays or interruptions in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions. Some of our commercial partners, such as those that help us deliver our website, may receive or store information provided by us or our users through our websites. If these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate information security practices, or fail to comply with our online policies, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our users' data may be improperly accessed, used or disclosed. If our systems are harmed or fail to function properly, we may need to expend significant financial resources to repair or replace systems or to otherwise protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If we experience a significant security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant security breach, we could be exposed to costly legal or regulatory actions against us in connection with such incidents, which could result in orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business practices. Any incidents involving unauthorized access to or improper use of user information, or incidents that are a violation of our online privacy policy could harm our brand reputation and diminish our competitive position. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation or financial results. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third-parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third-parties, the successful independent development by third-parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Litigation pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently party to various legal and other proceedings. In particular, numerous putative class actions and stockholder derivative actions have been filed against us in response to our disclosures in the Current Reports on Forms 8-K dated September 28, 2010 and November 15, 2010. In addition, two individual and numerous class actions have been filed against us asserting claims under United States federal antitrust laws and various state laws, claiming that the Company has monopolized alleged markets for single serve coffee brewers and single serve coffee portion packs, including through its contracts with suppliers and distributors and in connection with the launch of our next generation hot brewing system, Keurig® 2.0 and seeking to block the launch of Keurig® 2.0. A claim was also filed against us in Canada by Club Coffee L.P., a Canadian manufacturer of single-serve beverage packs, claiming damages of $600 million and asserting a breach of competition law and false and misleading statements by the Company. We have also been sued in California state court, for an alleged violation of California's Proposition 65 law in connection with the presence of acrylamide in coffee. See Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These matters may involve substantial expense and operational disruption to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations. These matters may also lead to reputational harm. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our products are extensively regulated in every jurisdiction in which we operate and, as we continue to expand geographically, will become subject to the laws and regulations of additional jurisdictions. Our products are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacturing, storing, marketing, advertising, and distributing of these products. Other laws and regulations relate to labeling requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, privacy, health and safety and trade practices. Enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products relating to the content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products. One such law, which is in effect in California and is known as Proposition 65, requires that a warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance that, in the view of the state, causes cancer or birth defects. The state maintains lists of these substances and periodically adds other substances to these lists. Proposition 65 exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in California because it does not provide for any generally applicable quantitative threshold below which the presence of a listed substance is exempt from the warning requirement. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. However, Proposition 65 does not require a warning if the manufacturer of a product can demonstrate that the use of the product in question exposes consumers to a daily quantity of a listed substance that is below a "safe harbor" threshold that may be established, is naturally occurring, is the result of necessary cooking, or is subject to another applicable exception. One or more substances that are currently on the Proposition 65 lists, or that may be added to the lists in the future, can be detected in Company products, 22 Table of Contents including coffee, at low levels that are safe. With respect to substances that have not yet been listed under Proposition 65, the Company takes the position that listing is not scientifically justified. With respect to substances that are already listed, the Company takes the position that the presence of each such substance in Company products is subject to an applicable exemption from the warning requirement. The State of California or other parties, however, may take a contrary position. If we were required to add Proposition 65 warnings on the labels of one or more of our beverage products produced for sale in California, the resulting consumer reaction to the warnings and possible adverse publicity could negatively affect our sales both in California and in other marketplaces. Adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. For the year ended September 27, 2014, our net sales in the United States were approximately $4.1 billion, or 87% of our total net sales. Our sales and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which are under pressure from United States and global economic conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a worsening of economic conditions and/or decrease in consumer spending in the United States may adversely impact our sales, reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps, and the risk of counterparty default. Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products, and could impact the food security of communities around the world. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 