Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business Green Mountain Coffee’s business, its future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and 9 Table of Contents currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. Our failure to successfully integrate Keurig into our business may cause us to fail to realize the expected synergies and other benefits of the acquisition, which could adversely affect our future results. The integration of Keurig into our business presents significant challenges and risks to our business, including: • distraction of management from regular business concerns; • assimilation and retention of employees and customers of Keurig; • integration of technologies, services and products; and • achievement of appropriate internal control over financial reporting. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Keurig into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. We may fail to grow and build profits in Keurig’s business line or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customers or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Keurig has a history of operating losses, and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability of its business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to increase its profitability may not be realized, and Keurig’s losses may continue as we integrate its operations into our business. If Keurig’s revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if its operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase its profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. We financed the cash consideration paid in the acquisition with Keurig through our new $125 million credit facility, and such debt could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. This substantial indebtedness and the fact that a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our debt obligations could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; 10 Table of Contents • limit, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements because such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Increases in the cost of high quality Arabica coffee beans could reduce Green Mountain Coffee’s gross margin and profit. Cyclical swings in commodity markets, based upon supply and demand, are common and it is expected that coffee prices and differentials will remain volatile in the coming years. In addition, a number of factors, such as pest damage and weather-related crop failure could cause coffee prices to climb. In past years, green coffee prices have been under considerable downward pressures due to oversupply, but have increased significantly since 2005. We believe that the “C” price of coffee (the price per pound quoted by the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange) will remain highly volatile in future fiscal years. In addition to the “C” price, coffee of the quality sought by Green Mountain Coffee tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” above the “C” price. These differentials also are subject to significant variations and have generally been on the rise. We generally try to pass on coffee price increases and decreases to our customers. In general, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on green coffee price increases to customers without losses in sales volume or gross margin. Additionally, if higher green coffee costs can be offset on a dollar for dollar basis by price increases, this trend still lowers our gross margin on a percentage of sales basis. Similarly, rapid, sharp decreases in the cost of green coffee could also force us to lower sales prices before realizing cost reductions in our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. We roast over 40 different types of green coffee beans to produce more than 100 coffee selections. If one type of green coffee bean were to become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we believe we could substitute another type of coffee of equal or better quality meeting a similar taste profile. However, a worldwide supply shortage of the high-quality Arabica coffees we purchase could have an adverse impact on our Company. Decreased availability of high quality Arabica coffee beans could result in a decrease in revenue and jeopardize our Company’s ability to maintain or expand our business. While production of commercial grade coffee is on the rise, many industry experts are concerned about the ability of specialty coffee production to keep pace with demand. Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase are not readily available on the commodity markets. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high quality Arabica coffee beans. In particular, the supply of Fair Trade Certified™ coffees is limited. We may not be able to purchase enough Fair Trade Certified™ coffees to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand for such coffees, which could impact our revenue growth. Furthermore, a worldwide supply shortage of the high quality Arabica coffee beans we purchase could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because an increasing amount of our supply of Arabica coffee beans comes from specialty farms, we are more dependent upon a limited amount of suppliers, which increases the risk of inventory shortage. We purchase an increasing amount of green coffee from specifically identified farms, estates, cooperatives and cooperative groups. In fiscal 2006, 47% of green coffee purchases were “farm- 11 Table of Contents identified”. The timing of these purchases is dictated by when the coffee becomes available (after the annual crop), which does not always coincide with the period we need this green coffee to fulfill customer demand. This can lead to higher and more variable inventory levels. If our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers deteriorate, we may be unable to procure a sufficient quantity of high quality coffee beans. In such case, we may not be able to fulfill the demand of its existing customers, supply new customers or expand other channels of distribution. A raw material shortage could result in decreased revenue or could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. Political instability in coffee growing regions could result in a decrease in the availability of high quality Arabica coffee beans needed for the continued operation and growth of our business and an increase in our operating costs. Our Company roasts Arabica coffee beans from many different regions to produce over 100 types and blends of coffee. The political situation in many of those regions, including Africa, Indonesia, and Central and South America, can be unstable, and such instability could affect our ability to purchase coffee from those regions. If Arabica coffee beans from a region become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to discontinue particular coffee types and blends or substitute coffee beans from other regions in our blends. Frequent substitutions and changes in our coffee product lines could lead to cost increases, customer alienation and fluctuations in our gross margins. Competition in the specialty coffee market is intense and could affect Green Mountain Coffee’s profitability. The specialty coffee and brewer market is highly fragmented. Competition in the specialty coffee market is becoming increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the specialty coffee market. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources. Our primary competitors in specialty coffee sales include Gevalia Kaffe (Kraft Foods), Dunkin’ Donuts, Peet’s Coffee & Tea, Millstone® (Procter & Gamble), New England Coffee Company and Starbucks. There are numerous smaller, regional brands that also compete in this category. In addition, we compete indirectly against all other coffee brands on the market. A number of nationwide coffee marketers, such as Kraft Foods, Procter & Gamble, Sara Lee and Nestlé, are distributing premium coffee brands in supermarkets. These premium coffee brands may serve as substitutes for our coffee. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened. Competition in the single cup brewer systems market is intense and could affect Green Mountain Coffee’s profitability. There are a multitude of competitive single cup brewing systems available in North America and internationally. Competition in the single cup brewing system market is becoming increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the market, particularly with typically lower-cost brewers that brew coffee packaged in non-patented pods. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources. Our primary competitors are FLAVIA® Beverage Systems (manufactured and marketed by Mars), the TASSIMO beverage system (manufactured and marketed by Kraft), the SENSEO® brewing system (manufactured and marketed by Philips and Sara Lee) and a 12 Table of Contents number of additional single-cup brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened. Because a substantial portion of Green Mountain Coffee’s revenue is related to sales to certain major customers, the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm our business. Our Company receives a significant portion of revenue in each fiscal period from a relatively limited number of customers, and that trend is likely to continue. Coffee pounds shipped by GMCR to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 37% of total coffee pounds shipped by GMCR in fiscal 2006. The loss of one or more of these major customers or a decrease in orders from one of these customers could materially affect our business. In addition, a significant percentage of our total revenue in fiscal 2006 came from sales of K-Cups®. If competitive, business or economic factors had a material negative impact on sales of the Keurig brewing system, our business would be adversely affected. Because Green Mountain Coffee’s business is focused almost entirely on the sale of specialty coffee, if the demand for specialty coffee decreased, our Company’s business could suffer. Sales of specialty coffee constituted approximately 90% of our Company’s 2006 net revenue. Demand for specialty coffee is affected by many factors, including: • Consumer tastes and preferences; • International, national, regional and local economic conditions; and • Demographic trends Because Green Mountain Coffee is highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for specialty coffee decreases, our sales would decrease accordingly. Green Mountain Coffee depends on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within the Company without effective replacements, our operations could suffer. The success of our Company’s business is dependent to a large degree on our management and our coffee roasters and purchasers. If members of the Company’s management leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. If we lost the services of our coffee roasters and purchasers, our ability to source and purchase a sufficient supply of specialty coffee beans and roast coffee beans consistent with our quality standards could suffer. In either case, the Company’s business and operations could be adversely affected. Green Mountain Coffee’s roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our coffee and, therefore, essential to our brand. Because our roasting methods cannot be patented, we would be unable to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods became known. If the Company’s competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brand could be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors could be able to develop 13 Table of Contents roasting methods that are more advanced than Green Mountain Coffee’s roasting methods, which could also harm our competitive position. Because our Company has only one roasting facility, a significant interruption in the operation of this facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one coffee roasting facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Similarly, any disruption in our new distribution facility adjacent to our roasting facility in Vermont could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. This new distribution center continues to undergo hardware and software changes and refinements in order to run more efficiently, and there is a risk that the distribution center may not consistently operate at optimal performance levels throughout the year. In addition, because our coffee roasting and primary distribution facility is located in Vermont, our ability to ship coffee and receive shipments or raw materials could be adversely affected during winter months as a result of severe winter conditions and storms. Because our Company has essentially all of its single cup brewers manufactured from a single supplier in China, a significant disruption in the operation of this supplier or political unrest in China could potentially disrupt our Keurig business. We have only one supplier of single cup brewers. Any disruption in production or inability of our supplier to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our Keurig business on a day-to-day basis. Furthermore, our single supplier of single cup brewers is located in China. This exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation. Because Green Mountain Coffee relies heavily on common carriers to deliver our coffee and brewers any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. Green Mountain Coffee relies on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee and brewers to our customers and distribution centers. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee and brewers in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: • Have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brand and reputation; • Result in the disposal of an amount of coffee that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and • Require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause the Company’s revenue and profits to suffer. 14 Table of Contents Because a substantial portion of our business is based in New England, a worsening of the regional New England economy, a decrease in consumer spending or a change in the competitive conditions in this market could substantially decrease Green Mountain Coffee’s revenue and could adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Coffee pounds shipped to customers in New England accounted for 45% of our total pounds shipped by GMCR in fiscal 2006. We expect that our New England operations will continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. In addition, our market share and visibility in New England provides us with a means for increasing brand awareness, building customer loyalty and strengthening our premium specialty coffee brand. As a result, an economic downturn or other decrease in consumer spending in New England may not only lead to a substantial decrease in revenue, but may also adversely impact our ability to market our brand, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy and further diversify the geographical concentration of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 