Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks, including the risks described below. This Item 1A does not describe all risks applicable to our business and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations and the car-haul industry in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below, as well as the other risks that are generally set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our common stock or debt securities. We may not be able to successfully reorganize under Chapter 11, which would likely terminate our future business prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern and result in a liquidation of our assets. On July 31, 2005, Allied Holdings, Inc. and substantially all its subsidiaries filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11. On May 18, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Joint Plan filed by the Debtors, the Teamsters and Yucaipa. Our ability to successfully reorganize could be hampered by a number of factors including our ability to consummate the Joint Plan, our ability to comply with the covenants contained within the New DIP Facility, our ability to motivate and retain key employees and suppliers and the extent to which the reorganization process serves to divert management’s attention away from the daily running of the business. In addition, the adverse publicity regarding our Chapter 11 filing and performance could affect our results going forward. Any adverse effect on our credit standing with our lenders and suppliers could affect the costs of doing business and our negotiating power with lenders and creditors. We can provide no assurance that the reorganization process will be successful. If it is not successful, it is likely that we would be forced to cease operations and liquidate our assets. Investors in our common stock and debt securities will suffer a loss since, under the Disclosure Statement for the Joint Plan, equity shareholders will receive nothing and debt holders will receive less than the amount of their initial investment. The Joint Plan provides that our currently outstanding common stock will have no value and will be canceled and that the holders thereof will not receive a distribution of any type. Further, the value of our various pre-petition liabilities 14 Table of Contents and other securities is highly speculative. Accordingly, caution should be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these liabilities and securities. We have a significant amount of debt and substantially all our assets are pledged as collateral for debt obligations, which could limit our operational flexibility and customer relationships or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, we had consolidated term debt and borrowings under the Original DIP Facility of approximately $161.4 million and Senior Notes outstanding of $150 million. As more fully discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on March 30, 2007, the Original DIP Facility was replaced by the New DIP Facility, which provides financing of up to $315 million. However, we are still exposed to the risks normally associated with substantial amounts of debt such as: • We may not be able to repay, refinance or extend our debt as it matures. The New DIP Facility matures on September 30, 2007 if we do not emerge from Chapter 11 on or prior to that date; • If we are not able to refinance or extend our debt when it matures, we may not be able to repay the debt; • Substantially all our assets are pledged as collateral for our debt and as a result we are limited in our ability to sell assets to generate additional cash; • Our flexibility in responding to changes in the business and industry may be reduced; • We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns; • We may be unable to invest in our fleet of Rigs; • We may be unable to meet customer demands; and • We may be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The terms of the New DIP Facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and limits our flexibility. The New DIP Facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, incur or repay debt (with the exception of payment of interest or principal at stated maturity), incur liens, make investments, purchase or redeem stock, make dividend or other distributions or enter into a merger or consolidation transaction. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in the New DIP Facility, and these are not waived, or we do not adequately service this debt, our lenders could declare a default under the New DIP Facility. If a default occurs under the New DIP Facility, our lenders may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Borrowings under the New DIP Facility are collateralized with substantially all of our assets. If we were unable to repay any borrowings under the New DIP Facility when due, our lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt. Any default under the New DIP Facility, particularly any default that results in acceleration of indebtedness or foreclosure on collateral, would have a material and adverse affect on us. We will be required to make significant capital expenditures on our Rigs in the coming years and we may not be able to maintain our current level of terminal operations or customer relationships. In recent years, as a result of our financial condition, we have operated under a reduced capital expenditure plan with respect to our fleet of Rigs. As a result, we have been unable to replace or remanufacture the number of Rigs or engines we normally would have if we had not been forced to significantly reduce our capital expenditures. We believe that approximately 67% of our active fleet of Rigs will reach the end of their useful lives and must be replaced in 2007 through 2010, which will require a significant increase in our capital spending, from approximately $35.8 million in 2006 to approximately $66.8 million in 2007 (excluding the Blue Thunder Rigs) and $70 million in each of the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. No assurances can be provided that we will have the 15 Table of Contents necessary capital from our operations or that we will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, to support this necessary increase in capital investment. Even if we are able to invest the amounts indicated above each year, we will be operating a substantial number of Rigs beyond their scheduled replacement or remanufacturing due dates. Accordingly, Rigs may have to be taken out of service sooner than planned as a result of equipment failures or the Rigs otherwise reaching the end of their useful lives. We presently have no excess Rigs to service our existing business or to seek additional business. A large number of Rig failures could result in our inability to meet our service requirements under existing customer contracts, which could result in the termination of such agreements by our customers and would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Additionally, we may be forced to increase repair and maintenance spending in an effort to maintain the number of Rigs in service. If we are unable to make planned reinvestments in the fleet because of liquidity or other constraints, or if there is inadequate manufacturing or remanufacturing capacity when we require it, repairs and maintenance expense will be adversely impacted. If we are not able to renegotiate our union contracts on terms favorable to us as they expire, or if work stoppages or other labor disruptions occur during such negotiations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Disclosure Statement for the Joint Plan incorporates modifications to our collective bargaining agreement with the Teamsters in the U.S. The proposed amendment, which has been ratified by the affected employees, is scheduled to take effect upon the effective date of the Disclosure Statement for the Joint Plan and would be renewable three years from that date. The modifications to the Master Agreement remain subject to various conditions, including our emergence from Chapter 11 under the Disclosure Statement for the Joint Plan and the appointment of a new CEO reasonably acceptable to the IBT prior to our emergence from Chapter 11. We can provide no assurance that these conditions will be met or that we will emerge from Chapter 11. In addition, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to negotiate new union contracts as the current contracts expire, or that such contracts will be on terms acceptable to us or that these contracts will not result in increased labor costs, labor disruptions, increased employee turnover, higher risk management costs, work stoppages, or lost customer market share which could in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or customer relationships. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow and interest expense. A portion of our indebtedness is subject to variable rates of interest. In addition, we may also incur additional debt obligations attracting interest at variable rates and/or may refinance our current debt at higher interest rates. Therefore, our interest expense could increase which in turn would reduce the amounts available for servicing our debt, funding our operations and capital expenditure program, meeting customer demands and pursuing new business opportunities. A shortage of fuel or higher fuel prices resulting from fuel shortages or other factors could have a detrimental effect on the automotive industry or the automotive transportation industry and could materially and adversely affect our operations. Higher fuel prices or a shortage of fuel could impact the sale of SUVs or light trucks at our major customers which could impair our revenues and negatively impact our earnings. Further, fuel is a major expense in the transportation of automobiles, and the cost and availability of fuel are subject to economic and political factors and events, which we can neither control nor accurately predict. We attempt to minimize the effect of fuel price fluctuations by periodically purchasing a portion of our fuel in advance, but we can provide no assurance that such activity will effectively mitigate our exposure. In addition, we have negotiated fuel surcharges with substantially all of our customers, which now enables us to pass on a portion of any increase in fuel costs to these customers. Customer fuel surcharges reset at varying intervals which do not exceed one quarter, based on the fuel prices from the applicable previous period. Therefore, there is a lag between the time fuel prices change and the time that the fuel surcharge is adjusted. Nevertheless, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain fuel surcharges from these customers. Furthermore, in periods of rising fuel prices and declining vehicle deliveries, we may not recover all of the fuel price increase through our fuel surcharge programs since fuel surcharge rates in any quarter reset at the beginning of the quarter based on fuel prices in the preceding quarter and are also influenced by our customers’ production levels. 16 Table of Contents Higher fuel prices resulting from fuel shortages or other factors could materially and adversely affect us if we are unable to pass on the full amount of fuel price increases to our customers through fuel surcharges or higher shipment rates. In addition, higher fuel prices, even if passed on to customers, or a shortage of fuel supply, or the timing of fuel surcharge recoveries could have an adverse effect on the automotive transportation industry and our business in general. A further decline in the automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The automotive transportation industry in which we operate is dependent upon the volume of new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks manufactured, imported and sold in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, and the demand for new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks is directly affected by such external factors as general economic conditions in the U.S and Canada, unemployment, consumer confidence, fuel prices, government policies, continuing activities of war, terrorist activities, and the availability of affordable new car financing. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected by downturns in the general economy and in the automotive industry and by consumer preferences in purchasing new automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks or the overall financial condition of our major customers. A significant decline in the volume of automobiles, SUVs, and light trucks manufactured, distributed, and sold in North America could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The internal strategies of our largest customers could have a material effect on our performance. Allied Automotive’s business is highly dependent on its largest customers, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota and Honda. General Motors and Ford have publicly announced plans to reduce production levels and eliminate excess manufacturing capacity including plans to eliminate jobs and reduce costs for certain employees. The efforts underway by our customers to improve their overall financial condition could result in numerous changes that are beyond our control including additional unannounced customer plant closings, changes in products or distribution patterns, further volume reductions, labor disruptions, changes or disruptions in our accounts receivable, mandatory reductions in our pricing, terms or service conditions or market share losses. We cannot accurately anticipate some of the risks associated with the financial condition of our largest customers. Losses may exceed our insurance coverage or reserves. Because we retain liability for a significant portion of our risks, an increase in the number or severity of accidents, on the job injuries, other loss events over those anticipated, or adverse developments in existing claims including wage and medical cost inflation could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. While we currently have insurance coverage for claims above our retention levels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. We establish liabilities for our self-insured obligations based on actuarial valuations, our historical claims experience and management’s evaluation of the nature and severity of claims made against us. If the cost of these claims exceeds our estimates, as could occur if there were unfavorable developments in existing claims, we would be required to record additional expenses in subsequent years. We are also required to provide collateral to our third-party insurance carriers and various states for losses in respect of worker injuries, accident, theft, and other loss claims. For this purpose, we utilize cash and/or letters of credit. We can provide no assurance that the current letter of credit requirements will be reduced nor can we provide assurance that these letter of credit requirements will not increase. We have a history of losses and may not be able to improve our performance to achieve profitability. We reported net losses of $12.3 million, $125.7 million, $53.9 million, $8.6 million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In addition, our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 was $228.4 million. Our ability to improve our performance and profitability is dependent upon several factors including the timely and successful implementation of a plan of reorganization, the economy, the dynamics of the automotive transportation industry including actions by our major customers, our ability to develop and implement successful business strategies, our ability to maintain effective relationships with our employees including those represented by the Teamsters, our ability to maintain effective relationships with our suppliers, the price and availability of fuel and our ability to successfully manage other operational challenges. If we fail to improve our performance, it could continue to have an adverse effect on 17 Table of Contents our financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and business prospects and our operations would not likely be profitable in the ensuing years. Our restricted cash, cash equivalents and other time deposits are not available for use in our operations even if they were needed to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2006, our restricted cash, cash equivalents and other time deposits were approximately $98.3 million. We use these restricted cash and investments to collateralize letters of credit required by third-party insurance carriers for the settlement of insurance claims. These assets are not available for use in our operations even if needed for our continued operations or to service our debt obligations. If we do not maintain our relationships with major customers or these relationships are terminated, reduced or redesigned, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Allied Automotive’s business is highly dependent on its largest customers, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota and Honda. Approximately 88% of our Automotive Group’s 2006 revenues were generated through the services provided to these customers. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully renew these contracts on or prior to their expiration on terms satisfactory to us or that we will be able to continue to serve these customers without service interruption. In addition, the Automotive Group faces the risk of losing market share in connection with its negotiations to renew its customer contracts. For instance, in 2004, the Automotive Group renewed its agreement with DaimlerChrysler and though the agreement resulted in increased billing rates, the Automotive Group lost DaimlerChrysler’s business at six locations in connection with the contract renewal. Also, in 2005, in connection with the renewal of its contract with Toyota, the Automotive Group lost business at locations that generated approximately 32% of the 2005 revenues associated with the Toyota account. The Automotive Group recently reached an agreement in principle with Ford which would give Ford the right to resource certain of our business at locations mutually acceptable to Allied and Ford. A continued loss in market share without an increase in revenues or pricing or an adequate reduction in costs would likely have an adverse effect on our operations. A significant reduction in vehicle production levels, plant closings, or the imposition of vendor price reductions by these manufacturers, or the loss of General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Toyota or Honda as customers, or a significant reduction or a change in the design, definition, frequency or terms of the services provided for any of these customers by our Automotive Group would have a material adverse effect on our operations. General Motors, DaimlerChrysler, and Ford, in particular, have publicly announced plans to significantly reduce vendor costs including those costs associated with logistics services. Competition in the automotive transportation industry could result in a loss of our market share or a reduction in our rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The automotive transportation industry is highly competitive. Our Automotive Group currently competes with other motor carriers of varying sizes, as well as with railroads and independent owner-operators. Allied Automotive also competes with non-union motor carriers that may be able to provide services to their customers at lower prices and in a more flexible manner than we can. The development of new methods for hauling vehicles could also lead to increased competition. For example, some customers occasionally utilize local drive-away services to facilitate local delivery of products. There has also been an increase in the number of vehicle-hauling companies that utilize non-union labor, and we believe that the market share and Rig capacity represented by such companies is increasing. Vehicle-hauling companies that utilize non-union labor operate at a significant cost advantage as compared to our Automotive Group and other unionized vehicle-hauling companies. Non-union vehicle-hauling competitors also operate without restrictive work rules that apply to our Automotive Group and other unionized companies. Railroads, which specialize in long-haul transportation, may be able to provide delivery services at costs to customers that are less than the long-haul delivery cost of Allied Automotive’s services. Further, the railroads could form alliances for local delivery of customer products. If we lose market share to these competitors or have to reduce our rates in order to retain our market share, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We hope to prevent further deterioration to our market share on the basis of reliability through our experienced drivers, effective management, productive and service-driven operations, extensive and flexible distribution network, and management of risk, particularly with respect to cargo claims, worker injuries and traffic accidents. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to prevent further loss of our market share through these initiatives. 18 Table of Contents Our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange, which could make it more difficult for investors to liquidate their shares, result in a decline in the stock price and make it difficult for us to raise additional capital. We voluntarily requested that our common stock be delisted from the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) during 2005 since we did not believe that we would be able to comply with the continuing listing requirements of the AMEX. The stock was subsequently delisted in August 2005 and is currently traded on the Pink Sheets, which are a daily listing of bid and ask prices for over-the-counter stocks not included on the daily over-the-counter bulletin boards. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the Pink Sheets. Adverse changes in the foreign business climate, primarily in Canada, could adversely affect our operations. Although the majority of our operational activity takes place in the U.S., we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in foreign countries, primarily Canada. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, adverse changes in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the U.S., hostility from local populations, terrorist activity, the potential adverse effects of currency exchange controls, increased security at U.S. border crossings which could slow the movement of freight and increase our operating costs, deterioration of foreign economic conditions, currency rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions and potential changes in local taxation policies. Due to the foregoing risks, any of which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, we believe that our business activities outside of the U.S. involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities. Major changes in key personnel on whom we depend could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent upon our senior management team, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. On April 30, 2007, the Board of Directors notified Mr. Sawyer that his employment would be terminated on or about May 31, 2007. We are currently conducting a search for a new CEO to replace Mr. Sawyer. If our management team is unable to develop successful strategies, achieve company objectives or maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers, employees, suppliers and creditors, our ability to grow our business and meet business challenges could be impaired. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management team or that we will be able to attract qualified replacement personnel, including a new CEO who is reasonably acceptable to the Teamsters. The loss of our Teamster drivers and mechanics could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to perform daily operations on behalf of our customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and mechanics to staff our Automotive Group’s terminals and garages. Should we experience higher than historical Teamster employee retirements or resignations which could occur as a result of our efforts to seek interim wage relief and modifications to the Master Agreement, our ability to grow our business, maintain our current business levels and meet customer service requirements could be adversely impacted. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain existing Teamster personnel at existing staffing levels or attract new Teamster employees to replenish our work force, when necessary. We have previously had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and any unidentified material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our SEC and other reporting requirements. In connection with its audits of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, including reviews of the quarterly periods for those years, KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) advised the Audit Committee and management that KPMG had identified deficiencies in our analysis, evaluation and review process for financial reporting. KPMG informed the Audit Committee and management that it believed such deficiencies were a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting, with respect to our analysis, evaluation and review of financial information included in our financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, KPMG indicated that they did not identify a material weakness as of December 31, 2006. Since we are not an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2), we have not conducted the initial assessment of our internal control over financial reporting mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 nor has KPMG audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will report on our annual assessment of internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, when required, which will be no earlier than for the year ending December 31, 2007. That process could identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses not previously reported. 19 Table of Contents We can provide no assurances that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. If we fail to remediate any such material weakness, our operating results or customer relationships could be adversely affected or we may fail to meet our SEC reporting requirements or our financial statements may contain a material misstatement. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives or of preventing fraud due to its inherent limitations, regardless of how well designed or implemented. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and as a result is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Because of these and other limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements or instances of fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal control over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 