Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or price of our common stock in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock in future periods. 12 Table of Contents Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of Keurig® beverage systems and pods. A significant percentage of our total revenue is attributable to sales of pods for use with our Keurig® hot system brewers. For the year ended September 26, 2015, total consolidated net sales of pods and Keurig® hot system brewers and related accessories represented approximately 95% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig® beverage systems, including adoption by consumers of our newly launched Keurig® Kold™ beverage system and sales of pods to an increasing installed base, are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the sale of Keurig® hot system brewers, failure of consumers to adopt our Keurig® Kold™ beverage system, failure to reduce the cost of our brewers or drinkmakers, or substantial or sustained decline in the sales of our pods would materially adversely affect our business. Keurig® hot system brewers compete against all sellers and types of coffeemakers. If we do not succeed in effectively reducing the costs of manufacturing our beverage systems or differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology, quality of products, desired brands or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig® beverage systems and pods, and accordingly, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our development and launch of the Keurig® Kold™ beverage system has required and will continue to require a significant investment and commitment of resources, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and ultimately may not prove successful. We have invested and expect to continue to invest significantly in the development and recent launch of our Keurig® Kold™ beverage system and our cold beverage platform technology. Such endeavor involves significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from our existing hot platform operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities and expenses associated with developing, launching and growing the new cold platform, inadequate return of capital on our investments, not accurately predicting consumer tastes and the market opportunity for a beverage platform, inability to respond in a timely manner to consumer desires and demands, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence and planning. The Keurig® Kold™ beverage system also has comparatively high price points. We cannot be certain that this platform will be widely accepted by consumers or that they will be willing to pay a higher price for these products. In addition, we may not be able to sufficiently scale the Keurig® Kold™ beverage system or find other ways to reduce the costs of manufacturing the appliance or pods; if we reduce the price of the Keurig® Kold™ appliance without reducing its cost, it will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because the introduction of and investment in a new platform is inherently risky, no assurance can be given that the Keurig® Kold™ beverage system will ultimately be successful or that it will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Continued innovation and the successful development and timely launch of new platforms, products and product extensions are critical to our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products, including new platforms such as our cold technology. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Additionally, our new product introductions are often time sensitive, and thus failure to deliver innovations on schedule could be detrimental to our ability to successfully launch such new products and retain partners, in addition to potentially harming our reputation and customer loyalty. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key marketplaces and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing marketplaces. 13 Table of Contents Our future financial results are difficult to predict, and failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance or our publicly announced guidance may cause the price of our stock to decline. As we and our industry evolve, we expect to face new challenges with respect to our transformation from a coffee company to a multi-category beverage company, our introduction of innovative products and the changing competitive landscape within the single serve category and the beverage industry. These challenges can occur at various stages, including design, supply chain and sales cycle. Our public forecasts regarding the expected performance of our business and future operating results are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the SEC and in our other public statements, and necessarily reflect current assumptions and judgments that may prove incorrect. As a result, there can be no assurance that our performance will be consistent with any public forecasts or that any variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Failure to meet expectations, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, operating cash flows, and net revenues, may likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price has historically and continues to experience substantial price volatility. We believe our stock price is subject to significant volatility because of factors such as: quarterly variations in our operating results; announcement of new products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, and; changes in earnings estimates. We also believe our stock price reflects, in part, expectations that our cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow, but future dividends remain subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. If we fail to meet these expectations, our stock price may decline, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Our share repurchase program could also affect the price of our stock and increase volatility. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including market and business conditions, the timing of open trading windows, trading price, and the nature of other investment opportunities. Although the share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, we cannot provide assurance that this will occur as price volatility over a given period may result in the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed our stock's price at a given point in time. Any failure to repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may negatively impact our stock price. Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors such as adverse weather conditions, our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® hot system brewers in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. If sales of our Keurig® hot system brewers during the holiday season do not meet expectations, sales of our pods throughout the remainder of the fiscal year will be negatively impacted. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that maybe achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the geographies in which we operate. Unusually warm weather during the winter months may have a temporary decrease on the demand for some of our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. 14 Table of Contents Increased competition, including as a result of industry consolidation, could hurt our businesses. The beverage and appliance industries are intensely competitive and we compete with respect to product, quality, convenience and price. We face significant competition in each of our channels and marketplaces. We compete with major international beverage and appliance companies that operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous companies that are primarily local in operation. Our beverages also compete against local or regional brands as well as against private label brands developed by retailers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the global marketplace or in various local marketplaces or maintain or enhance our relationships with our partners and customers may be limited as a result of actions by competitors, including as a result of increased consolidation in the food and beverage industry and an increase in the number of competitive pod contract manufacturers. Changes in the beverage environment and retail landscape could impact our financial results. The beverage environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the beverage retail landscape is dynamic and constantly evolving, not only in emerging and developing marketplaces, where modern trade is growing at a faster pace than traditional trade outlets, but also in developed marketplaces, where discounters and value stores, as well as the volume of transactions through e-commerce, are growing at a rapid pace. If we are unable to successfully adapt to the rapidly changing environment and retail landscape, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected. Consolidation in the retail channel, the loss of key retail or grocery customers and efforts by our customers to improve their profitability could adversely affect our financial performance. Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. Retailers have and will likely continue to seek lower prices from us and demand increased marketing or promotional expenditures. Large retailers also may be more likely to use their distribution networks to introduce and develop private label brands. Strategic partners may also choose to vertically integrate their brands' manufacturing and distribution. Any of the foregoing could negatively affect the Company's profitability. In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to maintain good relationships with key retail and grocery customers. The loss of one or more of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, because of the competitive environment facing retailers, many of our customers have increasingly sought to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs, pricing concessions, more favorable trade terms and increased emphasis on private label products. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to customers, our margins would be reduced. Further, if we are unable to continue to offer terms that are acceptable to our significant customers or our customers determine that they need fewer inventories to service consumers; these customers could reduce purchases of our products or may increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents Failure to maintain strategic relationships with well-recognized brands/brand owners and private label brands could adversely impact our future growth and business. We have entered into strategic relationships for the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of pods with well-regarded beverage companies such as Dunkin' Brands, The J.M. Smucker Company, Newman's Own® Organics, Kraft Foods Group, Peet's Coffee & Tea, Starbucks®, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. and The Coca-Cola Company®, as well as with retailers such as Costco and Wal-Mart for their private label brands. As independent companies, our strategic partners make their own business decisions which may not align with our interests. In addition, many of our strategic partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own specialty beverage products. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our strategic partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, or if our strategic partners are not satisfied with our brand innovation and technological or other development efforts, they may take actions, including entering into agreements with competing pod contract manufacturers or vertically integrating to manufacture their own pods. Increasing competition among pod manufacturers and the move to vertical integration may result in price compression, which could have an adverse effect on our gross margins. The loss of strategic partners could also adversely impact our future profitability and growth, awareness of our Keurig® brewers, our ability to attract additional branded or private label parties to do business with us or our ability to attract new consumers to buy Keurig® brewers. Product safety and quality concerns could negatively affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of all of our products. While we are committed to the safety and quality of our products, we may not achieve our product safety and quality standards. Product safety or quality issues, or mislabeling, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination or quality or safety issues, even when false or unfounded, could subject us to product liability and consumer claims, negative publicity, a loss of consumer confidence and trust, may require us from time to time to conduct costly recalls from some or all of the channels in which the affected product was distributed, could damage the goodwill associated with our brands, and may cause consumers to choose other products. The terms of our warranty coverage varies with our suppliers and vendors. Such issues could result in the destruction of product inventory, lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time, and higher than anticipated rates of warranty returns and other returns of goods, all of which could cause our business to suffer and affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high quality Arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean Arabica coffee and related coffee products. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility, and may increase due to the factors described below. The Arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "C" price of coffee. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the "C" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality Arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "C" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. These are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease (such as coffee rust), general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines. We may be able to pass some or all raw materials, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. If we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of pods and appliances could impair our ability to be flexible in our business without penalty. In order to ensure a continuous supply of high quality raw materials some of our inventory purchase obligations include long-term purchase commitments for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of pods and appliances. The timing of these may not always coincide with the period in which we need the supplies to fulfill customer demand. This could lead to higher and more variable inventory levels and/or higher raw material costs. 17 Table of Contents Investment in new business strategies, acquisitions and joint ventures could disrupt the Company's ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies, acquisitions and/or joint ventures. New ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. In evaluating such endeavors, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business strategies, opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the risks involved with entering new competitive categories or regions, the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and liabilities, the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses. Damage to our reputation or brand name or loss of brand relevance could negatively impact us. We believe our success depends on our ability to maintain the brand image of our existing products, build up brand image for new products and brand extensions, and maintain our corporate reputation. Product safety or quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination or safety issues, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish our image and that of affected brands. If we are unable to meet our sustainability targets, including the successful development and introduction of a recyclable K-Cup® pod prior to our 2020 100% implementation goal, consumers may lose trust and confidence in our brand and our Company's commitment to sustainability, and our brand could be damaged. Our brand name and image could also be negatively affected by claims made against us by third parties alleging violations of law, including antitrust or competition laws. Such issues could negatively affect our profitability and brand image. The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining our senior management team could adversely impact our business and financial results. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of our senior management. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel, or difficulties in recruiting high quality personnel to new positions could harm our business and our ability to timely achieve our strategic initiatives. If we are unable to retain and motivate our senior management team sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth and initiatives, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Obsolete inventory may result in reduced prices or write-downs. We must manage our inventory effectively. As we innovate and introduce new brewers to the marketplace, our existing brewers are at an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If we ultimately determine that we have excess brewers, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks of inventory obsolescence also exist with our products that are subject to expiration, such as pod components and beverage ingredients. And as we launch new beverage platforms, risk of excess inventory also exists if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for these new products. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, and inventory expires or becomes unusable prior to its use, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Conversely, if new brewers' launches are delayed, we may have insufficient existing brewer inventory to meet our customer demand which could result in lost revenue opportunities and have an adverse impact on our financial results. We rely on a limited number of companies for certain strategic material, product manufacturing and order fulfillment, and currently have a limited number of roasting and manufacturing facilities, so a significant disruption in the operation of any of these companies or in any of these facilities could materially adversely affect us. We have a limited number of suppliers for certain strategic raw materials critical for the manufacture of pods and the processing of certain key ingredients in our pods. In addition, a small number of companies manufacture the vast majority of our brewers. We also currently roast and manufacture our coffee and other beverage products in facilities in the United States (in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington, Virginia, and California) and one facility in Canada. Any disruption in operation of these companies or facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster, contractual dispute or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to meet demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current capabilities internally or acquire additional capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, we rely primarily on one order fulfillment entity, M.Block & Sons, Inc. ("MBlock"), to process the majority of orders sold through to retailers, department stores and mass merchants in the United States. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies for the Company's revenue recognition policy on how we recognize revenue on orders processed through fulfillment entities. The inability of MBlock to perform its obligations to us, whether due to deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with MBlock is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third-party to provide these services to us in a timely manner or on favorable terms or that we would be able to internalize the related services effectively or in a timely manner. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products. Loss of certification within our supply chain or as related to our manufacturing processes could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as "organic" or "Fair Trade," to differentiate some of our products from others, such as the Newman's Own® Organics product line, Green Mountain Coffee® Fair Trade Certified™ coffee line and the Canada segment's Fair Trade Organic Collection. In fiscal 2015, approximately 28% of our coffee purchases were from certified sources. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. Our failure to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. There is inherent risk in forecasting demand due to the uncertainties involved in assessing the current level of maturity of the single-serve component of our business. We set target levels for the manufacture of beverages systems and pods and for the purchase of green coffee in advance of customer orders based upon our forecasts of customer demand and those of our business partners. 19 Table of Contents If our forecasts exceed demand, we could experience excess inventory in the short-term, excess manufacturing capacity in the short and long-term, and/or price decreases, all of which could impact our financial performance. In addition, we may be contractually bound to minimum purchase commitments over a period of time which exceed customer demand. Alternatively, if demand exceeds our forecasts significantly beyond our current manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand, which could result in a loss of share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income. Increases or changes in income or indirect tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our tax filings for various periods in the jurisdictions in which we do business may be subjected to audit by the relevant tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, including interest and penalties, which are subsequently resolved with the authorities or potentially through the courts. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. Other changes in tax laws, regulations, related interpretations, and tax accounting standards in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. For example, the United States, many countries in the European Union, and other foreign jurisdictions where we do business, are actively considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, which, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Failure to comply with applicable transfer pricing and similar regulations could harm our business and financial results. In many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned and are taxed accordingly. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and restrictions, we are subject to the risk that governmental authorities could audit our transfer pricing and related practices and assert that additional taxes are owed. In the event that the audits or assessments are concluded adversely to us, we may or may not be able to offset or mitigate the consolidated effect of foreign income tax assessments through the use of U.S. foreign tax credits. Because the laws and regulations governing U.S. foreign tax credits are complex and subject to periodic legislative amendment, we cannot be sure that we would in fact be able to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. If we are unable to expand our operations in new countries, our long-term growth rate could be negatively affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in new countries, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those countries, our ability to establish operations in those countries or to form strategic business partnerships including with established brands and to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, order processing and fulfillment systems and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in new countries must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our existing products or new products currently under development will be accepted in any particular new country or that we will be able to develop new products that will be successful in any particular new country. 20 Table of Contents Exposure to foreign currency, commodity and interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign operations are primarily related to our Canada segment, which in fiscal 2015 represented 12.0% of the Company's net sales. Revenues and expenses from our Canada segment are generally derived from sales and operations conducted in the Canadian dollar. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and are positively affected when the United States dollar weakens. Conversely, our Canadian dollar-denominated expenses decrease when the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar and increase when the United States dollar weakens. Additionally, our assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars are similarly affected when the United States dollar fluctuates against the Canadian dollar. As we expand geographically, we expect to have increasing foreign currency risk associated with cash flows from foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchase commitments, and foreign currency intercompany debt. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we engage in transactions involving various derivative instruments to mitigate our foreign currency exchange rate exposures. More specifically, we hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in Canadian dollars. We also have coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swap agreements. While we attempt and will continue to attempt to mitigate some of our foreign currency exchange rate risk with hedging and other activities, our business nevertheless will remain subject to foreign exchange risk from foreign currency translation exposures that we may not be able to manage through effective hedging or the use of other financial instruments and we may incur material losses from such hedging transactions. We are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. While our foreign operations are primarily related to our Canada segment, we source our green coffee, certain production equipment, and components of our brewers and manufacturing of our brewers from countries outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations which include: unique economic conditions; changes in political climate; differing tax structures; other jurisdictions' laws, regulations and restrictions. As our operations further broaden geographically, we expect that our expanded foreign operations will continue to be exposed to these same risks. If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure or successfully implement our business transformation initiative, our business could suffer. We depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital marketing activities and online communication among our locations and between our personnel and the personnel of our contract manufacturers, suppliers or other third-party partners. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. 21 Table of Contents We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to streamline business processes and migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide system solution. There can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain enterprise-wide system solution, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with changing business needs, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption or failure, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation may be damaged. Our businesses involve the collection, storage and transmission of personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our information systems also contain the Company's proprietary and other confidential information related to our businesses. Our efforts to protect such information may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, catastrophic events, employee error or malfeasance or other attempts to harm our systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures in time. We could also experience a loss of critical data and delays or interruptions in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions. Some of our commercial partners, such as those that help us deliver our website, may receive or store information provided by us or our users through our websites. If these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate information security practices, or fail to comply with our online policies, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our users' data may be improperly accessed, used or disclosed. If our systems are harmed or fail to function properly, we may need to expend significant financial resources to repair or replace systems or to otherwise protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If we experience a significant security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant security breach, we could be exposed to costly legal or regulatory actions against us in connection with such incidents, which could result in orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business practices. Any incidents involving unauthorized access to or improper use of user information, or incidents that are a violation of our online privacy policy could harm our brand reputation and diminish our competitive position. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation or financial results. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third-parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third-parties, the successful independent development by third-parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights invalid or obsolete, or narrow their scope. In addition, while we make efforts to ensure that our commercial products, manufacturing processes, and brands have freedom to operate and do not infringe any third party rights, it is possible that some third party rights are not or are not able to be identified at the time of product commercialization, and could provide a basis for an allegation of infringement. 22 Table of Contents We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Litigation pending against us could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. We are currently party to various legal and other proceedings, and additional claims may arise in the future. See Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, operationally disruptive and distracting to management. In addition, our brand name and image could be negatively affected by claims made against us by third parties alleging violations of law, including antitrust or competition laws. These matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these legal proceedings or claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In recognition of these considerations, we may from time to time enter into arrangements to settle litigation. U.S. and international laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our products are extensively regulated in every jurisdiction in which we operate and, as we continue to expand geographically, will become subject to the laws and regulations of additional jurisdictions. Our products are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacturing, storing, marketing, advertising, and distributing of these products. Other laws and regulations relate to labeling requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, privacy, health and safety and trade practices. Our expanding international business exposes us to economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. Our international business is also subject to U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. We maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. However, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties which could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. 23 Table of Contents Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling (such as requiring labeling of products that contain genetically modified organisms) or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products relating to the content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products. One such law, which is in effect in California and is known as Proposition 65, requires that a warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance that, in the view of the state, causes cancer or birth defects. The state maintains lists of these substances and periodically adds other substances to these lists. Proposition 65 exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in California because it does not provide for any generally applicable quantitative threshold below which the presence of a listed substance is exempt from the warning requirement. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. However, Proposition 65 does not require a warning if the manufacturer of a product can demonstrate that the use of the product in question exposes consumers to a daily quantity of a listed substance that is below a "safe harbor" threshold that may be established, is naturally occurring, is the result of necessary cooking, or is subject to another applicable exception. One or more substances that are currently on the Proposition 65 lists, or that may be added to the lists in the future, can be detected in Company products, including coffee, at low levels that are safe. With respect to substances that have not yet been listed under Proposition 65, the Company takes the position that listing is not scientifically justified. With respect to substances that are already listed, the Company takes the position that the presence of each such substance in Company products is subject to an applicable exemption from the warning requirement. The State of California or other parties, however, may take a contrary position. If we were required to add Proposition 65 warnings on the labels of one or more of our beverage products produced for sale in California, the resulting consumer reaction to the warnings and possible adverse publicity could negatively affect our sales both in California and in other marketplaces. Adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. For the year ended September 26, 2015, our net sales in the United States were approximately $4.0 billion, or 88% of our total net sales. Our sales and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which remain under pressure from United States and global economic conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a worsening of economic conditions and/or decrease in consumer spending in the United States, may adversely impact our sales, reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products, and could impact the food security of communities around the world. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 