Item 1A. Risk Factors. - -------- ------------- Lack of Profitable Operations in Recent Periods. Although we were profitable in 2004 as a result of the McElmo Dome Settlement (see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings---McElmo Dome Litigation" for complete details), we have suffered net operating losses during each of the last seven years. Until we can demonstrate the ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, this shortcoming will impede our ability to borrow funds and may impact our ability to achieve profitability in the future. There is no certainty that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. Our Financial Position. Our net worth became negative as of December 31, 2001, and the deficiency increased to ($5,333,000) at year-end 2003. Receipt of the second installment of the Settlement reduced the deficiency to ($4,144,000) at year-end 2004. However, such deficiency increased to ($5,983,000) at year-end 2005 and will continue to increase until we are able to achieve profitability in our Coal and China Segments. Our business will continue to require substantial expenditures. Our inability to generate positive cash flow from operations has limited our ability to borrow funds and impacted our ability to achieve profitability. We must achieve a turnaround in both our China and Coal Segments this year. If a turnaround is not successful or is only partially successful, we will need to pursue additional outside financing which would likely involve further dilution to our shareholders. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms that we deem acceptable, or at all. We have substantial indebtedness and may not have enough revenues to pay our debts. As of December 31, 2005, we had $8,669,000 of total debt outstanding, including $132,000 of accrued interest to an affiliate of the Chairman, $1,631,000 of which is due in 2006. If we obtain the USDA Guaranty for a loan for the Pinnacle Project, $1,100,000 of the $1,631,000 of debt due in 2006 would be repaid to PinnOak from the proceeds of the USDA Guaranteed loan. If we do not obtain the USDA Guaranty for the Pinnacle Project, PinnOak has agreed to either fund or arrange for funding of the project and we expect to replace the current note with a long term note with a term of three and one-half to four years, which would also defer all or a portion of the $1,100,000 principal payable to PinnOak in 2006. We, or our subsidiaries may become further indebted. This much debt could pose substantial risks to our business. The indebtedness may require us to use available funds for payment of principal and interest instead of funding our operations. The debt could also inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. It is possible that we will not have enough cash flow from our operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. This would have a material adverse effect on us. Limited Liquidity. Our common stock trades on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Although we currently have ten firms making a market in our stock, the volume of trading has been relatively low and fairly sporadic. Approximately 42% of our 5,539,000 outstanding shares are held by management and another 8.5% are held by a long-term institutional holder. In addition, there is substantial potential dilution, with preferred shares convertible into 287,000 shares, presently exercisable warrants and options totaling 708,000 shares, notes convertible into 2,604,000 shares at year-end 2005 (2,750,000 at March 31, 2006), and a total of 598,000 shares at year-end 2005 (566,000 shares at March 31, 2006) in two DSC Plans scheduled for distribution in 2006 and future years. History of Delays in Finalizing New Coal Projects. We have experienced delays in the past in finalizing our new coal projects. We may experience additional delays in the future. Although we have signed a definitive agreement on the Pinnacle Project, it is uncertain at this time whether the ultimate financing will come from a bank and guaranteed by the USDA, or be provided or arranged by the pond owner. Accordingly, the terms of the financing are uncertain at this time. No definitive contracts have been signed in connection with the other projects currently under development in the Coal Segment, nor has any financing been arranged to date for these projects. Continued delays in finalizing our new coal projects may have a material adverse effect on us. History of Delays in Finalizing Projects in China. We have experienced delays in the past in finalizing projects in China and may experience additional delays in the future. In early 2005 we successfully arranged the financing for our initial project. Although the project was completed under budget and in a timely manner, we have failed to achieve our projected rate of market penetration and the project is now several months behind budget. Continued delays in finalizing our new projects in China, or delays in meeting budgeted projections, may have a material adverse effect on us. starpay Intellectual Property Rights; Copying by Competitors. We have identified at least three competitors that offer services that potentially conflict with starpay's intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from infringement, we may not be able to realize the anticipated profit potential from the e-Commerce Segment. Failure to Achieve a Settlement or Win a Judgment in the Lawsuit Against Visa. In connection with the lawsuit against Visa, we have agreed to bear one-half of the out-of-pocket expenses (excluding legal fees) borne by the law firm handling the case. At this point it is difficult to estimate the maximum exposure for such expenses, or the length of time before the matter might be resolved. However, if our operating results do not improve going forward and we are unable to pay our share of the expenses, then we would be faced with reducing our potential recovery from any settlement or judgment. Political and economic uncertainty in China could worsen at any time and our operations could be delayed or discontinued. Our business is subject to political and economic risks, including: o Loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of unforeseen events like expropriation, nationalization, war and insurrection; o Risks of increases in import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs, taxes and governmental royalties; o Renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities; o Changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies in China; o Exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; o Laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and o The possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. - ------- -------------------------- Not applicable. 