Item 1A. Risk Factors. Lack of Profitable Operations in Recent Periods. Although we were profitable in 2004 as a result of the McElmo Dome Settlement (see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings---McElmo Dome Litigation” for complete details), we have suffered net operating losses during each of the last nine years. Until we can demonstrate the ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, this shortcoming will impede our ability to borrow funds and may impact our ability to achieve profitability in the future. There is no certainty that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. Our Financial Position. Our net worth became negative as of December 31, 2001, and the deficiency increased to ($5,333,000) at year-end 2003. Receipt of the second installment of the Settlement reduced the deficiency to ($4,144,000) at year-end 2004. As such deficiency increased to ($9,185,000) at year-end 2007 and, although it will decrease in the 2008 first quarter as a result of the McElmo Dome sale, it is likely that it will continue to increase until we are able to achieve profitability in our Coal Segment. Our business will continue to require substantial expenditures. Our inability to generate positive cash flow from operations has limited our ability to borrow funds and impacted our ability to achieve profitability. We must achieve a turnaround in our Coal Segment this year. If a turnaround is not successful or is only partially successful, we may need to pursue additional outside financing which would likely involve further dilution to our shareholders. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms that we deem acceptable or obtain additional financing at all. (See “Item 1. Business. General development of business ---Recent Developments” for additional details). We have substantial indebtedness and may not have enough revenues to pay our debts. As of December 31, 2007, we had $10,651,000 of total debt outstanding, including $668,000 of accrued interest to an affiliate of the Chairman, and $3,508,000 of the debt is due in 2008. We, or our subsidiaries may become further indebted. This much debt could pose substantial risks to our business. The indebtedness may require us to use available funds for payment of principal and interest instead of funding our operations. The debt could also inhibit our ability to raise additional capital. It is possible that we will not have enough cash flow from our operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. This would have a material adverse effect on us. Limited Liquidity. Our common stock trades on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Although we currently have nine firms making a market in our stock, the volume of trading has been relatively low and fairly sporadic. At year-end 2007, 57.0% of our 5,657,715 outstanding shares was held by management and another 8.3% was held by a long-term institutional holder. In addition, there is substantial potential dilution, with preferred shares convertible into 296,000 shares, presently exercisable warrants and options totaling 640,000 shares, notes convertible into 3,506,000 shares at year-end 2007 and a total of 775,000 shares at year-end 2007 in two DSC Plans scheduled for distribution in 2008 and future years. History of Delays in Finalizing New Coal Projects. We have experienced delays in the past in finalizing our new coal projects. We may experience additional delays in the future. No definitive contracts have been signed in connection with the projects currently under development in the Coal Segment, nor has any financing been arranged to date for these projects. Continued delays in finalizing our new coal projects may have a material adverse effect on us. starpay Intellectual Property Rights; Copying by Competitors. We have identified at least three competitors that offer services that potentially conflict with starpay’s intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from infringement, we may not be able to realize the anticipated profit potential from the e-Commerce Segment. Failure to Achieve a Settlement or Win a Judgment in the Lawsuit Against Visa. In connection with the lawsuit against Visa, we have agreed to bear one-half of the out-of-pocket expenses (excluding legal fees) borne by the law firm handling the case. At this point it is difficult to estimate the maximum exposure for such expenses, or the length of time before the matter might be resolved. However, if our operating results do not improve going forward and we are unable to pay our share of the expenses, then we would be faced with reducing our potential recovery from any settlement or judgment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 