Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business, its future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and marketplace conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative, but not all inclusive, of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. Risks Related to Our Operations Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the sales of K-Cup® portion packs. A significant and increasing percentage of our total revenue has been attributable to sales of K-Cup portion packs for use with our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems. In fiscal 2010, total consolidated net sales of K-Cup portion packs and related accessories, Keurig brewers and royalties earned upon shipment of K-Cup portion packs by third party licensed roasters represented approximately 88% of consolidated net sales. Continued acceptance of Keurig Single-Cup brewing systems and sales of K-Cup portion packs to our installed base of brewers are significant factors in our growth plans. Any substantial or sustained decline in the acceptance of Keurig Single-Cup brewing systems or sales of our K-Cup portion packs would materially adversely affect us. Keurig’s single cup brewing system competes against all sellers of coffeemakers, including companies such as Bunn-O-Matic Corporation, Mars, Inc. (through its FLAVIA® unit), Conair, Inc., Jarden Corporation, Phillips Electronics NV and Robert Bosch GmbH. The Company also competes within the small but growing single-cup segment of the coffeemaker industry with other single-cup coffee and tea delivery systems, including: FLAVIA® 9 Table of Contents Beverage Systems (manufactured and marketed by Mars, Inc.), the Nescafe Dolce-Gusto beverage system (manufactured and marketed by Nestle S.A.), the SENSEO® brewing system (manufactured and marketed by Philips Electronics NV and Sara Lee Corporation), the TASSIMO beverage system (manufactured and marketed by Robert Bosch GmbH and Kraft Foods, Inc.), and a number of additional single-cup pod brewing systems and brands. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors, based on technology or otherwise, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of Keurig Single-Cup brewing systems and K-Cup portion packs, and accordingly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property may not be valid, enforceable, or commercially valuable. While we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third parties, the successful independent development by third parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. Many factors bear upon the exclusive ownership and exploitation right to intellectual properties, including, without limitation, prior rights of third parties, nonuse and/or nonenforcement by us, and/or related entities. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, which include the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents and other trade secrets and know how relating to our technology. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products and certain patents of ours will expire in the near future. In the United States, patents associated with our current generation K-Cup® portion packs presently used in Keurig brewers will expire in 2012 and 2017. We also have pending patent applications associated with current K-Cup portion pack technology which, if ultimately issued as patents, would extend coverage over all or some portion of K-Cup portion packs, and have expiration dates extending to 2023. These applications may not issue, or if they issue, they may not be enforceable, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Additionally, we have a number of portion pack patents that extend to 2021 but which we have elected not to commercialize yet and may never commercialize. In addition, Keurig continues to invest in further innovation in portion packs and brewing technology that will enhance our current patents or that may lead to new patents and takes steps it believes are appropriate to protect all such innovation. We are prepared to protect our patents vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation we institute to protect our intellectual property rights given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially adversely affect us. In addition, the validity, enforceability and value of our intellectual property depends in part on the continued maintenance and prosecution of such rights through applications, maintenance documents, and other filings, and rights may be lost through the intentional or inadvertent failure to make such necessary filings. Similarly, third parties may allege that our activities violate their intellectual properties. To the extent we are required to defend our self against such a claim, no assurance can be given that we will prevail. Such defense could be costly and materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Competition in specialty coffee is intense and could affect our sales and profitability. The specialty coffee business is highly fragmented. Competition in specialty coffee is increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the marketplace. In addition, we believe that maintaining and developing our brands is important to our success and the importance of brand recognition may increase to the extent that competitors offer products similar to ours. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources and access to capital than we do. Our primary competitors in specialty coffee include Dunkin’ Brands Inc., Peet’s Coffee & Tea and Starbucks Corporation. There are numerous smaller, regional brands that also compete in the specialty coffee business. In 10 Table of Contents addition, we compete indirectly against all other coffee brands in the marketplace. A number of nationwide coffee marketers, such as Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestlé USA, Procter & Gamble, Inc., and Sara Lee Corporation are distributing premium coffee brands in supermarkets. These premium coffee brands may serve as substitutes for our coffee. If we do not succeed in effectively differentiating ourselves from our competitors in specialty coffee, including by developing and maintaining our brands, or our competitors adopt our strategies, then our competitive position may be weakened and our sales of specialty coffee, and accordingly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected. Because all of our single-cup brewers are manufactured by a single manufacturer in China, a significant disruption in the operation of this manufacturer, political unrest or significant economic uncertainty in China could materially adversely affect us. We have only one manufacturer of single-cup brewers. Any disruption in production or inability of our manufacturer to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Furthermore, our manufacturer is located in China. This exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China, or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect us. Product recalls and/or product liability may adversely impact us. We are subject to regulation by a variety of regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Food and Drug Administration. In the event our manufacturer of single-cup brewers, which is located in China, does not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, we might not identify a deficiency before brewers ship to our customers. The failure of our third party manufacturer to produce merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and brands and lead to customer litigation against us. If our manufacturer is unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or issue voluntary or mandatory recalls of those products at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to recover costs related to product recalls. We also may incur various expenses related to product recalls, including product warranty costs, sales returns, and product liability costs, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. While we maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty costs in the future. In particular, during fiscal 2010, we experienced higher warranty returns associated with certain brewer models, which we believe was related to a component used in limited production runs in certain of our brewer models during late 2009. We are replacing affected brewers and have implemented hardware and software changes, which we believe have corrected the issue. However, there can be no assurance that we will not experience additional warranty expense related to this quality issue in future periods. Our increasing reliance on a limited number of specialty farms could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. Because an increasing amount of our supply of Arabica coffee beans comes from specifically identified specialty farms, estates, and cooperatives, we are more dependent upon a limited number of suppliers than some of our competitors. In fiscal 2010, approximately 38% of our green coffee purchases were “farm-identified.” The timing of these purchases is dictated by when the coffee becomes available (after the annual crop), which does not always coincide with the period in which we need green coffee to fulfill customer demand. This can lead to higher and more variable inventory levels. Any deterioration of our relationship with these suppliers, or problems experienced by these suppliers, could lead to inventory shortages. In such case, we may not be able to fulfill the demand of existing customers, supply new customers, or expand other channels of distribution. A raw material shortage could result in decreased revenue or could impair our ability to maintain or expand our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent on sales of specialty coffee, and if demand for specialty coffee or our product offerings decrease, our business would suffer. Substantially all of our revenues are dependent on demand for specialty coffee. In addition, demand for specialty coffee is a driving factor in the sales of our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems. Demand for specialty coffee and demand for our Keurig Single-Cup brewing systems is affected by many factors, including: • Changes in consumer tastes and preferences; • Changes in consumer lifestyles; • National, regional and local economic conditions; • Perceptions or concerns about the environmental impact of our products; • Demographic trends; and • Perceived or actual health benefits or risks. Because we are highly dependent on consumer demand for specialty coffee, a shift in consumer preferences away from specialty coffee or our product offerings would harm our business more than if we had more diversified product offerings. If customer demand for our specialty coffee decreases, our sales would decrease and we would be materially adversely affected. Our roasting methods are not proprietary, so competitors may be able to duplicate them, which could harm our competitive position. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our coffee and, therefore, essential to our various brands. Because our roasting methods cannot be patented, we would be unable to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods became known. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brands could be diminished and we could lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors could develop roasting methods that are more advanced than ours, which could also harm our competitive position. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role within the Company without effective replacements, our operations could suffer. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence J. Blanford, and the other members of our management team. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Blanford that expires on May 3, 2012. If Mr. Blanford or the other members of our management team leave without effective replacements, our ability to implement our business strategy could be impaired. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. At September 25, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $354.5 million, and we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance our pending acquisition of Van Houtte. Currently, we intend to finance the acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and $1.45 billion of new debt financing comprised of (i) a $650 million 5-year senior secured revolving credit facility, (ii) a $250 million 5-year senior secured term loan A facility, and (iii) a $550 million 6-year senior secured term loan B facility. These facilities will be utilized to finance this acquisition and transaction expenses, as well as to refinance our existing outstanding indebtedness and support our ongoing growth. In addition, future disruptions in the financial markets, such as have been recently experienced, could affect our ability to obtain new or additional debt financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all), and have other adverse effects on us. A description of our indebtedness is included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the subheading Liquidity and Capital Resources, included in this Annual Report. 12 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Our debt obligations could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • Impair our rights to our intellectual property, which have been pledged as collateral under our credit facility, upon the occurrence of a default; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • Limit, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds and have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements because such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. We are dependent upon access to external sources of capital to grow our business. Our business strategy contemplates future access to debt and equity financing to fund the expansion of our business. Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets and equity securities, including our common stock, have exhibited a high degree of volatility. While we have been successful in accessing the debt and equity markets in the past, no assurance can be given that we will continue to be able to do so. The inability to obtain sufficient capital to fund the expansion of our business could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, a downgrade in the rating of our outstanding debt could make it difficult or prohibitively expensive to borrow, which could have a material adverse effect on us. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting, manufacturing or distribution capabilities could materially adversely affect us. We currently roast our coffee in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington, California and Toronto, Canada. We expect to be able to meet current and forecasted demand for the near term. However, if demand increases more than we currently forecast, we will need to either expand our current roasting capabilities internally or acquire additional roasting capacity and the failure to do so in a timely or cost effective manner could have a negative impact on our business. Significant interruption in the operation of our current facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. In addition, we and other third party licensed coffee roasters manufacture the K-Cup® portion packs sold for use with our single-cup brewer systems. We manufacture K-Cup portion packs at our Vermont, Tennessee, Washington and California facilities in the United States and in our Toronto facility in Canada, and any significant disruption in our or our licensee’s ability to manufacture adequate quantities of K-Cup portion packs to meet our needs, and those of our licensees whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We currently have seven distribution facilities located in Vermont, Tennessee, Washington and California. Any disruption to our distribution facilities could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, because we have our coffee roasting and primary distribution facilities in Vermont, our ability to ship coffee and receive shipments of raw materials could be adversely affected during winter months as a result of severe winter conditions and storms. Our order processing and fulfillment systems may fail or limit user traffic, which could cause us to lose sales. We are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment on our Waterbury, Vermont campus in effective working order and to protect against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. In addition, growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the 13 Table of Contents capacity of our systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. We have experienced capacity constraints in the past that have resulted in decreased levels of customer service, such as increased customer call center wait times and delays in service to customers for limited periods of time. Although we continually review and consider upgrades to our order fulfillment infrastructure and provide for system redundancies to limit the likelihood of systems overload or failure, substantial damage to our systems or a systems failure that causes interruptions for a number of days could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unsuccessful in updating and expanding our order fulfillment infrastructure, our ability to grow may be constrained. Our reliance on a single order fulfillment entity for our Keurig subsidiary’s at-home business exposes us to significant risk in the United States. We rely on a single order fulfillment entity, M.Block & Sons, Inc. (“MBlock”), to process the majority of orders for our AH single-cup business sold through to retailers in the United States. For a more comprehensive description of the AH channel, see the Company’s revenue recognition policy in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. We are subject to significant credit risk regarding the creditworthiness of MBlock and the creditworthiness of its customers. Receivables from MBlock were approximately 47% of our consolidated accounts receivable balance at September 25, 2010. The inability of MBlock to perform its obligations to us, whether due to a deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, could result in significant losses that could materially adversely affect us. If our relationship with MBlock is terminated, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to contract with another third party to provide these services to us in a timely manner or on favorable terms or that we would be able to internalize the related services effectively or in a timely manner. We depend on certain retailers for a substantial portion of our revenues in any fiscal period and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from, these retailers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, we are reliant on certain retailers for a substantial portion of our revenues. For example, our sales processed by MBlock to Bed Bath & Beyond of our AH brewers, accessories and K-Cup® portion packs represented approximately 14% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. If Bed Bath & Beyond reduces its demand for our products or it is unable to perform its financial obligations to MBlock, whether due to a deterioration in its financial condition, integrity or failure of its business systems or otherwise, it could result in lower revenues or in significant losses to MBlock that, in turn, could materially adversely affect us. Because we rely heavily on common carriers to deliver our coffee and brewers, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of common carriers to deliver coffee and brewers to our customers and distribution centers. We have no control over these common carriers and the services provided by them may be interrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or other factors. If we experience an interruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our products in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: • Have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee, cocoa or tea shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brands and reputation; • Result in the disposal of an amount of coffee, cocoa or tea that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and • Require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, common carriers. 14 Table of Contents Any significant increase in shipping costs could lower our profit margins or force us to raise prices, which could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. The failure to successfully integrate Timothy’s and Diedrich’s businesses, or the Van Houtte business assuming completion of the acquisition, into our business may cause us to fail to realize the expected synergies and other benefits expected from these acquisitions, which could significantly affect us. The integration of our recent and pending acquisitions into our business presents significant challenges and risks to our business, including: • Distraction of management from regular business concerns; • Assimilation and retention of employees and customers; • Managing the operations and employees of these businesses, all of which are distant from our current headquarters and operation locations; • Expansion into new geographies; • Integration of technologies, services and products; and • Achievement of appropriate internal control over financial reporting. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of these businesses into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies and other benefits expected from these acquisitions. We may fail to grow and build profits in business lines or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customer service or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Diedrich has a history of operating losses, and our ability to achieve and then maintain the profitability of this business line will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Failure to complete the Van Houtte acquisition could require us to pay an up to $91.5 million Canadian dollar reverse break-up fee. The share purchase agreement we have entered into with respect to the Van Houtte acquisition requires that we pay the sellers a reverse break-up fee if the Van Houtte acquisition is not completed under certain circumstances. If we fail to complete the acquisition due to a breach of our obligations under the share purchase agreement, then we will be required to pay the sellers a reverse break-up fee of $91.5 million Canadian dollars. The share purchase agreement is terminable by either us or the sellers if the acquisition is not completed on or prior to December 31, 2010, except that if the acquisition is not completed on or prior to December 31, 2010 due to regulatory approvals having not been obtained by that date, the termination date will be extended to March 31, 2011. Strategic investments or acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We may seek to grow our business through opportunistic strategic investments or acquisitions. From time to time we may be in various stages of negotiation with parties relating to the possible investment in or acquisition of businesses or assets. We are unable to predict whether our negotiations will result in any agreement to invest in or acquire a business or an asset or whether any such transaction will be consummated on favorable terms or at all. To the extent we are successful in completing one or more opportunistic strategic investments or acquisitions, we would face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the 15 Table of Contents need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to retain relationships with customers and business partners. Additionally, we may pursue an acquisition that is not accretive initially due to its long term strategic value. Exposure to foreign currency risk and related hedging activities may result in significant losses and fluctuations to the periodic income statements. We are exposed to significant foreign currency exchange risk related to the pending purchase of Van Houtte. This material commitment denominated in foreign currency, as well as the hedging activities entered into to mitigate the associated risk, could result in material losses to the income statement and cash flow statement until the acquisition is closed. Additionally, on an ongoing basis, we expect to have increasing foreign currency risk associated with cash flows from foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchase commitments, and foreign currency intercompany debt. We expect to enter into derivatives contracts to mitigate these risks. However, there can be no assurance that these contracts will effectively protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and we may incur material losses from such hedging transactions. Due to the seasonality of many of our products and other factors, our operating results are subject to quarterly fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced increased sales of our Keurig® single-cup brewing systems in our first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, quarterly operating results should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. We may not be able to enter into license agreements with coffee roasters and other third parties to manufacture, distribute and sell K-Cup® portion packs or maintain our current license agreements, or it may be expensive to do so. In addition, our current licensees may fail to perform their obligations under existing licensing agreements. We license the right to manufacture, distribute and sell K-Cup portion packs on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis to gourmet coffee roasters and tea packers in return for royalty payments from the licensees when they ship the K-Cup portion packs. Although many licensees are willing to enter into such licensing agreements, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be negotiated on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, our current licensees may fail to perform their obligations under such licensing agreements due to operational disruptions, economic hardship or bankruptcy. Our failure to enter into similar licensing agreements in the future or the failure of our licensees to perform their obligations under existing license agreements could limit our ability to develop and sell our products and could cause our business to suffer. We also have an exclusive coffee license agreement with Newman’s Own® Organics and an exclusive tea license agreement with Celestial Seasonings®. We produce lines of several co-branded Newman’s Own Organics coffees and co-branded Celestial Seasonings teas .. Recently we announced a multi-year manufacturing and distribution agreement under which we will manufacture K-Cup portion packs for certain coffee brands owned by The J.M. Smucker Company (“Smucker”), including Folgers®, Gourmet Selections® and Millstone®. In addition, from time to time, we enter into licensing agreements to allow for the development, marketing and sale of single-cup brewing systems by other companies. The failure to maintain these agreements could adversely impact our future growth. We face risks related to the ongoing SEC inquiry. As previously disclosed, on September 20, 2010, the staff of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement informed the Company that it was conducting an inquiry into matters at the Company. The Company, at the direction of the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors, is cooperating fully with the SEC staff’s inquiry. At this 16 Table of Contents point, we are unable to predict what, if any, consequences the SEC inquiry may have on us. However, the inquiry could result in considerable legal expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or other amounts and could become subject to injunctions, an administrative cease and desist order, and/or other equitable remedies. The filing of our restated financial statements to correct the discovered accounting errors will not resolve the SEC inquiry. Further, the resolution of the SEC inquiry could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of the SEC inquiry. Management’s determination that material weaknesses exist in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on the Company. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In Item 9A of this Annual Report, management reports that material weaknesses exist in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting principally related to the Company’s period-end financial reporting and consolidation process. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Consequently, and pending the Company’s remediation of the matters that have caused the control deficiencies underlying the material weaknesses, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we may be unable to report properly or timely the results of our operations, and investors may lose faith in the reliability of our financial statements. Accordingly, the price of our securities may be adversely and materially impacted. Litigation pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently party to various legal and other proceedings. In particular, numerous putative class actions and stockholder derivative actions have been filed against us in response to our recent disclosures in the Current Reports on Forms 8-K dated September 28, 2010 and November 15, 2010. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve substantial expense to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Risks Related to our Industry Increases in the cost of high-quality Arabica coffee beans or cost of materials used to produce our brewers could reduce our gross margin and profit. We utilize a combination of outside brokers and direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives and cooperative groups for our supply of green coffees. Outside brokers provide the largest supply of our green coffee. The supply and price of coffee are subject to high volatility. Supply and price of all coffee grades can be affected by multiple factors, such as weather, pest damage, politics, competitive pressures and economics in the producing countries. Cyclical swings in commodity markets are common and the most recent years have been especially volatile for the “C” price of coffee (the price per pound quoted by the Intercontinental Exchange). The “C” price of coffee reached a multi-year high during fiscal 2010 and it is expected that coffee prices will remain volatile in the coming years. In addition to the “C” price, coffee of the quality sought by us tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium or “differential” in addition to the “C” price, depending on the supply and demand at the time of purchase. These differentials also are subject to significant variations, due to many of the same factors as for other high quality Arabica coffee beans, and have generally been on the rise in recent years. 17 Table of Contents We generally try to pass on coffee price increases and decreases to our customers. Due to the recent increase in “C” prices, we announced in September 2010, a price increase on all K-Cup® portion packs sold in North America to be effective beginning October 11, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on these cost increases to customers without losses in sales volume or gross margin. Additionally, even if higher green coffee costs can be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis by price increases, this still lowers our gross margin percentage. Similarly, rapid and sharp decreases in the cost of green coffee could also force us to lower our prices to customers resulting in lower gross margins due to the need to sell products comprised of higher green coffee costs until we would be able to reduce our green coffee inventory and purchase commitments. Significant fluctuations in the cost of other commodities, such as steel, petroleum and copper influence prices of plastic and other components used in manufacturing our coffee brewers. Approximately 96% of Keurig brewers shipped in fiscal 2010, were sold to the AH channel approximately at cost, or sometimes at a loss, when factoring in the incremental costs related to sales, including fulfillment charges, returns reserve and warranty expense. With respect to the Keurig single-cup AH system, we are continuing to pursue a model designed to penetrate the marketplace, a component of which is to sell brewers at affordable consumer price points in order to attract new customers into single serve coffee. Any rapid, sharp increases in our cost of manufacturing AH brewers would be unlikely to lead us to raise sales prices to offset such increased cost as our current strategy is to drive penetration and not risk slowing down the rate of sales growth as compared to our competitors or before realizing cost reductions in our purchase commitments. There can be no assurance that we will able to sell our AH brewers approximately at cost when such fluctuation occur. Decreased availability of high-quality Arabica coffee beans could jeopardize our ability to maintain or expand our business. We roast over 50 different types of green coffee beans to produce more than 100 coffee selections. If one type of green coffee bean were to become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we believe we could substitute another type of coffee of equal or better quality meeting a similar taste profile. However, a worldwide supply shortage of the high-quality Arabica coffees we purchase could have a material adverse impact on us. Worldwide or regional shortages of high-quality Arabica coffees can be caused by multiple factors, such as weather, pest damage and economics in the producing countries. In addition, the political situation in many of the Arabica coffee growing regions, including Africa, Indonesia, and Central and South America, can be unstable, and such instability could affect our ability to purchase coffee from those regions. If Arabica coffee beans from a region become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to discontinue particular coffee types and blends or substitute coffee beans from other regions in our blends. Frequent substitutions and changes in our coffee product lines could lead to cost increases, customer alienation and fluctuations in our gross margins. While production of commercial grade coffee is generally on the rise, many industry experts are concerned about the ability of specialty coffee production to keep pace with demand. Arabica coffee beans of the quality we purchase are not readily available on the commodity markets. We depend on our relationships with coffee brokers, exporters and growers for the supply of our primary raw material, high-quality Arabica coffee beans. In particular, the supply of Fair Trade CertifiedTM coffees is limited. We may not be able to purchase enough Fair Trade Certified coffees to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand for such coffees, which could materially adversely affect our revenue growth. Adverse changes in global and domestic economic conditions or a worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect us. Our sales and performance depend significantly on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which have recently improved but are still under pressure from United States and global economic conditions. A worsening of the economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely impact our sales, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy and further diversify the geographical concentration of our operations. For example, we are highly dependent on consumer demand for 18 Table of Contents specialty coffee and a shift in consumer demand away from specialty coffee due to economic or other consumer preferences would harm our business. Keurig brewer sales may also decline as a result of the economic environment. We also have exposure to various financial institutions under coffee hedging arrangements and interest rate swaps, and the risk of counterparty default is currently higher in light of existing capital market and economic conditions. Increased scrutiny from government agencies which could result in agency investigations or other actions. Because of the increase in government regulation and oversight, coupled with the expansion of our business generally, and specifically with our expansion into other single-serve beverages, we may come under increased scrutiny from many different government agencies for various reasons. This may cause an agency investigation, whether formal or informal, which will have the result of diverting management attention and time, and other resources, as well as possibly considerable capital resources necessary to manage the investigation, all of which would otherwise have been spent growing and managing the business. In addition, because of the additional governmental regulation, it will become increasingly harder to ensure that all of our activities and products comply with the myriad of applicable regulation, which increases the risk of violations. Our products must comply with government regulation. We are subject to USDA regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program. Additionally, amendments to Canada’s Organic Products regulations as administered by the Canada Organic Office of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency became effective in December 2008. Although the implementation period has not yet been defined, we will be required to apply for recertification of our organic products under the new regulations and update any affected packaging. In addition, similar regulations and requirements exist in the other countries in which we may market our products and our organic products are covered by these various regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labeling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products, the loss of any of which could harm our business. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “Fair Trade,” to differentiate our products from others. The Newman’s Own® Organics product line, combined with SCBU’s own branded Fair Traded CertifiedTM coffee line, represented a combined 29% of SCBU’s total consolidated sales volume in fiscal year 2010. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 