ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are various risks and uncertainties that are inherent in our business. Following is a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and that could cause the value of our common stock to decline significantly, were they to transpire. Additional risks that are not currently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in the local markets that we serve. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the value of financial instruments and real estate values, and while we are taking steps to reduce our market and credit risk exposure, we nonetheless are affected by these issues in view of our retaining a securities portfolio, and portfolios of multi-family; CRE; ADC; and C&I loans. Continued declines in the value of our investment securities could result in our recording additional losses on the other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) of securities, which would reduce our earnings and therefore our capital. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales, and an increase in the financial stress on borrowers stemming from an uncertain economic environment, including rising unemployment, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely impact the repayment of the loans we have made. The overall deterioration in economic conditions also could subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, a prolonged recession, or further deterioration in local economic conditions, could result in an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; and a decline in the value of the collateral for our loans, which could reduce our customers’ borrowing power. Furthermore, a prolonged recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions could drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our loan loss allowance, which could necessitate an increase in our provision for loans losses, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings and capital. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by intermediate-term (i.e., five-year) interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in the earnings of the Company. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on our interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits; the fair values of our securities and other financial assets; the fair values of our liabilities; and the average lives of our loan and securities portfolios. 26 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could also have an effect on the level of loan refinancing activity which, in turn, would impact the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on our multi-family and commercial real estate loans. As prepayment penalties are recorded as interest income, the extent to which they increase or decrease during any given period could have a significant impact on the level of net interest income and net income we generated during that time. In addition, changes in interest rates could have an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows, and the value of our assets. Please see “Net Interest Income” and “Asset and Liability Management and the Impact of Interest Rate Risk” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for information regarding the actions we have been taking to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk. We are subject to credit risk. Risks stemming from our lending activities: Our business strategy emphasizes the origination of multi-family loans and, to a lesser extent, CRE, ADC, and C&I loans, which are generally larger, and have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our credit risk would ordinarily be expected to increase with the growth of these loan portfolios. While our record of asset quality has historically been solid, multi-family and CRE properties are generally believed to involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four-family loans. In addition, payments on multi-family and CRE loans generally depend on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on their successful operation and management. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans may be impacted by adverse conditions in the local real estate market and the local economy. While we seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which generally require that such loans be qualified on the basis of the collateral property’s cash flows, appraised value, and debt service coverage ratio, among other factors, there can be no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses or delinquencies. ADC financing typically involves a greater degree of credit risk than longer-term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate. Risk of loss on an ADC loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction or development, compared to the estimated costs (including interest) of construction. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be under-secured. While we seek to minimize these risks by maintaining consistent lending policies and rigorous underwriting standards, an error in such estimates or a downturn in the local economy or real estate market could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our ADC loan portfolio, thereby resulting in material losses or delinquencies. We seek to minimize the risks involved in C&I lending by underwriting such loans on the basis of the cash flows produced by the business; by requiring that such loans be collateralized by various business assets, including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable, among others; and by requiring personal guarantees. However, the capacity of a borrower to repay a C&I loan is substantially dependent on the degree to which his or her business is successful. In addition, the collateral underlying such loans may depreciate over time, may not be conducive to appraisal, or may fluctuate in value, based upon the business’ results. We cannot guarantee that our record of asset quality will be maintained in future periods. Although we were not, and are not, involved in subprime or Alt-A lending, the ramifications of the subprime lending crisis and the turmoil in the financial and capital markets that followed have been far-reaching, with real estate values declining and unemployment and bankruptcies rising throughout the nation, including the region we serve. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans could be adversely impacted by the significant change in market conditions, which not only could result in our experiencing an increase in charge-offs, but also could necessitate our increasing our provision for loan losses. Either of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations were they to occur. 27 Table of Contents Please see “Loans” and “Asset Quality” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the policies and procedures we follow in underwriting our multi-family, CRE, ADC, and C&I loans. Risks stemming from our focus on lending in the New York metropolitan region: Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in the New York metropolitan region, where the majority of the buildings and properties securing our loans and the businesses of our customers are located. Unlike larger national or superregional banks that serve a broader and more diverse geographic region, our lending is primarily concentrated in New York City and the surrounding markets of Nassau, Suffolk, and Westchester counties in New York, and Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union counties in New Jersey. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the region or by changes in the local real estate market. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism, or other factors beyond our control could therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because multi-family and CRE loans represent the majority of our loans outstanding, a decline in tenant occupancy due to such factors or for other reasons could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Please see “Loans” and “Asset Quality” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the policies and procedures we follow in underwriting our multi-family, CRE, ADC, and C&I loans. In addition, please see the discussion of the potential impact of the current economic environment on our financial condition and results of operations on page 26 of this report. We are subject to certain risks in connection with the level of our allowance for loan losses. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to repay any remaining indebtedness. In such an event, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the process of originating a loan, we make various assumptions and judgments about the ability of the borrower to repay it, based on the cash flows produced by the building, property, or business; the value of the real estate or other assets serving as collateral; and the creditworthiness of the borrower, among other factors. We also establish an allowance for loan losses through an assessment of probable losses in each of our loan portfolios. Several factors are considered in this process, including historical and projected default rates and loss severities; internal risk ratings; loan size; economic, industry, and environmental factors; and loan impairment, as defined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. If our assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, as we continue to grow our loan portfolio, it may be necessary to increase the allowance for loan losses by making additional provisions, which would adversely impact our operating results. Furthermore, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Allowance for Loan Losses” under “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. In addition, please see the discussion of risks stemming from our lending activities above and on page 27 of this report. 28 Table of Contents We face significant competition for loans and deposits. We face significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions, both within and beyond our local marketplace. Within our region, we compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, and investment banks for deposits, and with the same financial institutions and others (including mortgage brokers, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage houses) for loans. We also compete with companies that solicit loans and deposits over the Internet. Many of our competitors (including money center, national, and superregional banks) have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do, and may offer certain products and services that we cannot. Because our profitability stems from our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. Our success as a competitor depends on a number of factors, including our ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term relationships with our customers by providing them with convenience, in the form of multiple branch locations and extended hours of service; access, in the form of alternative delivery channels, such as online banking, banking by phone, and ATMs; a broad and diverse selection of products and services; interest rates and service fees that compare favorably with those of our competitors; and skilled and knowledgeable personnel to assist our customers with their financial needs. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and real estate values, changes in interest rates, and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. Please see “Loans” and “Funding Sources” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the actions we have taken to attract and retain our borrowers and depositors. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities; cash flows from the sale of securities; the deposits we acquire in connection with our acquisitions and those we gather organically through our branch network, as well as brokered deposits; and borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY and various Wall Street brokerage firms. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Additionally, replacing funds in the event of large-scale withdrawals of brokered deposits could require us to pay significantly higher interest rates on retail deposits or other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and our earnings. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks in connection with our strategy of growing through mergers and acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth in the past, and continue to be a key component of our business model. Accordingly, it is possible that we could acquire other financial institutions, financial service providers, or branches of banks in the future. However, our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions depends on our ability to identify suitable merger partners, our ability to finance and complete such transactions on acceptable terms and at acceptable prices, and our ability to receive the necessary regulatory approvals and, where required, shareholder approvals. Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including the diversion of management’s attention; the need to integrate acquired operations, internal controls, and regulatory functions; the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; an increase in expenses and working capital requirements; and limitations on our ability to successfully complete the post-merger repositioning of our balance sheet. Any of these factors, among others, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions we undertake. Please see Item 1, “Business,” earlier in this report and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for information about our mergers and acquisitions. Our goodwill may be determined to be impaired. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. According to SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are to be used as the basis for measuring impairment, when available. Other acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If we were to determine that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the value of the goodwill on our balance sheet. This, in turn, would result in a charge against earnings and, thus, a reduction in our stockholders’ equity and certain related capital measures. Please see “Significant Accounting Policies” in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. To a large degree, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel whose expertise, knowledge of our markets, and years of industry experience would make them difficult to replace. Competition for skilled leaders in our industry can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we would like to have working for us. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, given the specialized knowledge of such personnel and the difficulty of finding qualified replacements on a timely basis. To attract and retain personnel with the skills and knowledge to support our business, we offer a variety of benefits which may negatively impact our earnings. Please see Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a description of our employee and stock-related benefit plans. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. 30 Table of Contents Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Environmental Issues” in Item 1, “Business,” earlier in this report. Our business may be adversely impacted by acts of war or terrorism. Acts of war or terrorism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of our depositors to maintain their deposits with the Banks. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws, regulations, and regulatory enforcement. We are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the New York State Banking Department, which is the chartering authority for both the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank; by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as the insurer of the Banks’ deposits; and by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a bank holding company and its banking subsidiaries may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the banking system in general, and customers, and not for the benefit of a company’s shareholders. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including with respect to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank or a bank holding company, the imposition of significant fines, the ability to delay or deny merger applications, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses, among other matters. Any failure to comply with, or any change in, such regulation and supervision, or change in regulation or enforcement by such authorities, whether in the form of policy, regulations, legislation, rules, orders, enforcement actions, or decisions, could have a material impact on the Company, our subsidiary banks, and our operations. Our operations are also subject to extensive legislation enacted, and regulation implemented, by other federal, state, and local governmental authorities, and to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including those pertaining to banking, lending, and taxation, among other matters, we may be subject to future changes in such laws, rules, and regulations that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Please see “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1, “Business,” earlier in this report. We are subject to risks associated with taxation. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. We may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assesses additional taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated effective tax rate either due to a change to tax law, a change in regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment which denies previously recognized tax benefits. 31 Table of Contents Please see “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1, “Business,” earlier in this report. The U.S. government’s plans to stabilize the financial markets may not be effective. In response to the recent volatility in the financial markets, the U.S. government has enacted certain legislation and regulatory programs to foster stability, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. There can be no assurance that the impact of such legislation and the various programs created thereunder on the financial markets will be sufficient to produce the desired results. The failure of the U.S. government to fully execute the programs it has already developed, or to implement expeditiously other remedial economic and financial legislation that may be needed, could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, compliance with new requirements and regulations established by federal and state governments to address the current economic crisis could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available, and our ability to maintain our dividend. We are subject to litigation risk. In the ordinary course of our business, the Company and the Banks may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a direct material impact on our financial position and daily operations. Please see “Legal Proceedings” under Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a discussion of the status of certain legal matters. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology. Risks associated with systems failures, interruptions, or breaches of security: Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with changes in technology: The provision of financial products and services has become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries. The Parent Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Banks, and a substantial portion of the revenues the Parent Company receives consists of dividends from the Banks. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock and the interest and principal payments on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If the Banks are unable to pay dividends to the Parent Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Banks could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain or increase the current level of cash dividends paid to our stockholders. Please see “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Restrictions on Subsidiary Banks,” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a further discussion of the restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Various factors could make a takeover attempt of the Company more difficult to achieve. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, in addition to certain federal banking laws and regulations, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company without the consent of the Board of Directors, even if doing so were perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management or to appoint new directors, and also regulate the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations, and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with certain executive officers and directors that would require payments to be made to them in the event that their employment was terminated following a change in control of the Company or the Banks. These payments may have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring the Company. The combination of these provisions could effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Various factors could impact the price and trading activity in our common stock. The price of the Company’s common stock can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; earnings estimates and recommendations of securities analysts; the performance and stock price of other companies that investors and analysts deem comparable to the Company; news reports regarding trends and issues in the financial services industry; actual or anticipated changes in the economy, the real estate market, and interest rates; speculation regarding our involvement in industry consolidation; our capital markets activities; mergers and acquisitions involving our peers; delays in, or a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of, an acquisition; speculation about, or an actual change in, dividend payments; changes in legislation or regulation impacting the financial services industry in particular, or publicly traded companies in general; regulatory enforcement or other actions against the Company or the Banks or their affiliates; threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and general market fluctuations. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult for you to sell your Company common stock at an attractive price. Furthermore, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing increased volatility and disruption for several quarters and have reached significant lows in recent months. In several cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for financial institutions, without regard to those institutions’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the value of our shares will not decline further, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to access capital in the financial markets and could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 