risk factors, could result in a material increase in our FDIC insurance premiums. Market Risks A decline in economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the loans we originate and the securities in which we invest. Although we take steps to reduce our exposure to the risks that stem from adverse changes in economic conditions, such changes nevertheless could adversely impact the value of the loans we originate, the securities we invest in, and our portfolios of covered and non-covered loans. Declines in real estate values and home sales, and an increase in the financial stress on borrowers stemming from high unemployment or other adverse economic conditions, could negatively affect our borrowers and, in turn, the repayment of the loans in our portfolio. Deterioration in economic conditions also could subject us and our industry to increased regulatory scrutiny, and could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, an increase in problem assets and foreclosures, and a decline in the value of the collateral for our loans, which could reduce our customers’ borrowing power. Deterioration in local economic conditions could drive the level of loan losses beyond 24 Table of Contents the level we have provided for in our loan loss allowances; this, in turn, could necessitate an increase in our provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings and capital. Furthermore, declines in the value of our investment securities could result in our having to record losses based on the other-than-temporary impairment of securities, which would reduce our earnings and also could reduce our capital. In addition, continued economic weakness could reduce the demand for our products and services, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the revenues we produce. The market price and liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if the economy were to weaken or the capital markets were to experience volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Among other factors, these risks may be affected by: • Operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors; • Developments in our business or in the financial services sector generally; • Regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; • Operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; • Changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies; • Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by us or our competitors; • Changes or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations; and • Significant fluctuations in the capital markets. Economic or market turmoil could occur in the near or long term, which could negatively affect our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as volatility in the price and trading volume of our common stock. Strategic Risks Extensive competition for loans and deposits could adversely affect our ability to expand our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions, both within and beyond our local markets. We also compete with companies that solicit loans and deposits over the Internet. Because our profitability stems from our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. Our success as a competitor depends on a number of factors, including our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term relationships with our customers by providing them with convenience, in the form of multiple branch locations, extended hours of service, and access through alternative delivery channels; a broad and diverse selection of products and services; interest rates and service fees that compare favorably with those of our competitors; and skilled and knowledgeable personnel to assist our customers by addressing their financial needs. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include, among others, the entry of new lenders and depository institutions in our current markets and, with regard to lending, an increased focus on multi-family and CRE lending by existing competitors. In addition, our mortgage banking operation competes nationally with other major banks and mortgage brokers that also originate, aggregate, sell, and service one-to-four family loans. If our ability to grow our portfolios of multi-family and CRE loans were limited due to regulatory concerns about our concentrated position in such assets, our ability to generate interest income could be adversely affected, as would our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Although we also originate ADC, one-to-four family, and C&I loans, and invest in securities, our portfolios of multi-family and CRE loans represent the largest portion of our asset mix. Our position in these markets has been instrumental to our production of solid earnings and our consistent record of exceptional asset quality. Nonetheless, if we were instructed to limit or reduce our concentration of multi-family and CRE loans by our regulators, the impact on our net interest income and net income could be materially adverse. 25 Table of Contents The inability to complete the Astoria Financial merger, to engage in other merger transactions, or to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other financial institutions and weaken our financial performance. Mergers and acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth and remain a key component of our business model. In addition to our proposed merger with Astoria Financial, it is possible that we will look to acquire other financial institutions, financial service providers, or branches of banks in the future. Our ability to complete the proposed mergers with Astoria Financial and Astoria Bank (together, the “Astoria Mergers”) depends on our receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals, as well as approval of the transaction by our shareholders and theirs. Our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions would depend on our ability to identify suitable merger partners and acquisition opportunities and on our ability to finance and complete negotiated transactions at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms. If we are unable to complete or engage in desired acquisition or merger transactions, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. As acquisitions have been a significant source of deposits, the inability to complete a business combination could require that we increase the interest rates we pay on deposits in order to attract such funding through our current branch network, or that we increase our use of wholesale funds. Increasing our cost of funds could adversely impact our net interest income and our net income. Furthermore, the absence of acquisitions could impact our ability to fulfill our loan demand. Mergers and acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • Our ability to successfully integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and to adopt appropriate internal controls and regulatory functions relating to such activities; • Our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by customers in acquired branches, and to successfully retain and manage any loans we acquire; • Our ability to attract new deposits, and to generate new interest-earning assets, in geographic areas we have not previously served; • Our success in deploying any cash received in a transaction into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • Our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from acquired operations; • Our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff acquired branches and conduct any acquired operations; • Our ability to generate acceptable levels of net interest income and non-interest income, including fee income, from acquired operations; • The diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • Our ability to address an increase in working capital requirements; and • Limitations on our ability to successfully reposition the post-merger balance sheet when deemed appropriate. In addition, mergers and acquisitions can lead to uncertainties about the future on the part of customers and employees. Such uncertainties could cause customers and others to consider changing their existing business relationships with the company to be acquired, and could cause its employees to accept positions with other companies before the merger occurs. As a result, the ability of a company to attract and retain customers, and to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel, prior to a merger’s completion could be impaired. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that acquired operations would not adversely affect our existing profitability; that we would be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business; that we would be able to compete effectively in the market areas served by acquired branches; or that we would be able to manage any growth resulting from a transaction effectively. In particular, our ability to compete effectively in new markets would be dependent on our ability to understand those markets and their competitive dynamics, and our ability to retain certain key employees from the acquired institution who know those markets better than we do. 26 Table of Contents If our goodwill were determined to be impaired, it would result in a charge against earnings and thus a reduction in our stockholders’ equity. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently, if necessary. This process involves obtaining quoted market prices in active markets, when available, as the best evidence of fair value. Other acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, discounted cash flows, or similar performance measures. If we were to determine that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the value of the goodwill on our balance sheet, adversely affecting our earnings as well as our capital. The inability to receive dividends from our subsidiary banks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain or increase the current level of cash dividends we pay to our shareholders. The Parent Company (i.e., the company on an unconsolidated basis) is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Banks, and a substantial portion of the revenues the Parent Company receives consists of dividends from the Banks. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock and the interest and principal payments on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If the Banks are unable to pay dividends to the Parent Company, we might not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, or pay dividends on our common stock. Reduction or elimination of our quarterly cash dividend could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds available for such payments under applicable law and regulatory guidance, and although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Furthermore, the payment of dividends falls under federal regulations that have grown more stringent in recent years. While we pay our quarterly cash dividend in compliance with current regulations, such regulations could change in the future. In addition, as a SIFI institution, the Company will be subject to regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act that limit the amount of capital that can be distributed by the Company from time to time. Any reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Operational Risks Our stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets currently are required to perform annual capital stress tests and to report the results of such tests. The results of our capital stress tests and the application of certain capital rules may result in constraints being placed on our capital distributions or require that we increase our regulatory capital under certain circumstances. In addition, the processes we use to estimate the effects of changing interest rates, real estate values, and economic indicators such as unemployment on our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. If the models we use in the process of managing our interest rate and other risks prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, we could incur increased or unexpected losses which, in turn, could adversely affect our earnings and capital. Additionally, failure by the Company to maintain compliance with strict capital, liquidity, and other stress test requirements under banking regulations could subject us to regulatory sanctions, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends. The occurrence of any failure, breach, or interruption in service involving our systems or those of our service providers could damage our reputation, cause losses, increase our expenses, and result in a loss of customers, an increase in regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possibly financial liability, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our stock. Communication and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have an impact on information security. 27 Table of Contents In addition, breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our confidential or other information, or that of our customers, clients, or counterparties. If one or more of such events were to occur, the confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks could potentially be jeopardized, or could otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers, clients, or counterparties. This could cause us significant reputational damage or result in our experiencing significant losses. Furthermore, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. We also may be subject to litigation and financial losses that either are not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential, and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. We have discussed, and worked with our customers, clients, and counterparties to develop, secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of these constituents, and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of such information. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. The Company and the Banks rely on third parties to perform certain key business functions, which may expose us to further operational risk. We outsource certain key aspects of our data processing to certain third-party providers. While we have selected these third-party providers carefully, we cannot control their actions. Our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, to adequately process and account for our customers’ transactions, or otherwise conduct our business could be adversely impacted by any disruption in the services provided by these third parties; their failure to handle current or higher volumes of usage; or any difficulties we may encounter in communicating with them. Replacing these third-party providers also could entail significant delay and expense. Our third-party providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, and other security breaches. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other third-party providers and their personnel. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by such security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the activities of our third-party providers or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation, and other possible liabilities. In addition, the Company may not be adequately insured against all types of losses resulting from third-party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from systems failures or other disruptions to our banking services. Failure to keep pace with technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete for loans and deposits, and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. To some degree, our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. 28 Table of Contents If federal, state, or local tax authorities were to determine that we did not adequately provide for our taxes, our income tax expense could be increased, adversely affecting our earnings. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal, state, and local legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. We may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain, and our net income and earnings per share could be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority were to assess additional taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated effective tax rate. Unanticipated changes in tax laws or related regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment that denies previously recognized tax benefits, could result in our recording tax expenses that materially reduce our net income. The inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. To a large degree, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel whose expertise, knowledge of our markets, and years of industry experience would make them difficult to replace. Competition for skilled leaders in our industry can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we would like to have working for us. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, given the specialized knowledge of such personnel and the difficulty of finding qualified replacements on a timely basis. Furthermore, our ability to attract and retain personnel with the skills and knowledge to support our business may require that we offer additional compensation and benefits that would reduce our earnings. Many aspects of our operations are dependent upon the soundness of other financial intermediaries, and thus could expose us to systemic risk. The soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between them involving credit, trading, execution of transactions, and the like. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions. As such “systemic risk” may adversely affect the financial intermediaries with which we interact on a daily basis (such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, and securities firms and exchanges), we could be adversely impacted as well. Reputational Risk Damage to our reputation could significantly harm the businesses we engage in, as well as our competitive position and prospects for growth. Our ability to attract and retain investors, customers, clients, and employees could be adversely affected by damage to our reputation resulting from various sources, including employee misconduct, litigation, or regulatory outcomes; failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality; compliance failures; unethical behavior; unintended disclosure of confidential information; and the activities of our clients, customers, and/or counterparties. Actions by the financial services industry in general, or by certain entities or individuals within it, also could have a significantly adverse impact on our reputation. Our actual or perceived failure to identify and address various issues also could give rise to reputational risk that could significantly harm us and our business prospects, including failure to properly address operational risks. These issues include legal and regulatory requirements; consumer protection, fair lending, and privacy issues; properly maintaining customer and associated personal information; record keeping; protecting against money laundering; sales and trading practices; and ethical issues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 