ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are various risks and uncertainties that are inherent in our business. Following is a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and that could cause the value of our common stock to decline significantly. Additional risks that are not currently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since the second half of 2007, we have been operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in the various local markets that we serve. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the value of financial instruments and real estate values, and while we have taken, and continue to take, steps to reduce our market and credit risk exposure, we nonetheless are affected by these issues in view of our retaining a securities portfolio; retaining portfolios of multi-family, commercial real estate (“CRE”), acquisition, development and construction (“ADC”), and commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans, and, to a lesser extent, our having acquired a portfolio of one- to four-family and other loans in the AmTrust acquisition and our now originating one- to four-family loans for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Continued declines in the value of our investment securities could result in our recording additional losses on the other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) of securities, which would reduce our earnings and, therefore, our capital. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales, and an increase in the financial stress on borrowers stemming from an uncertain economic environment, including high unemployment, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely impact the repayment of the loans we have made. The overall deterioration in economic conditions also could subject us, and the financial services industry, to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, further deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, an increase in problem assets and foreclosures, and a decline in the value of the 26 Table of Contents collateral for our loans, which could reduce our customers’ borrowing power. Further deterioration in local economic conditions could drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our loan loss allowance, which could necessitate an increase in our provision for loan losses, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings and capital. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense produced by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings). The level of net interest income we produce is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”) and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by intermediate-term (i.e., five-year) interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on our interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits, the fair values of our securities and other financial assets, the fair values of our liabilities, and the average lives of our loan and securities portfolios. Changes in interest rates could also have an effect on the level of loan refinancing activity which, in turn, would impact the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on our multi-family and CRE loans. As prepayment penalties are recorded as interest income, the extent to which they increase or decrease during any given period could have a significant impact on the level of net interest income and net income we generate during that time. In addition, changes in interest rates could have an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows, and the value of our assets. Furthermore, with the acquisition of AmTrust’s mortgage banking unit, we are originating one- to four-family loans for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Although we enter into forward commitments and other derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate risk stemming from this business, there is no guarantee that these forward commitments and other derivative instruments will be sufficient to hedge the interest rate risk we undertake. Our use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate our interest rate exposure may not be effective and may expose us to counterparty risks. In accordance with our operating policies, we may use various types of derivative financial instruments, including forward rate agreements, options, and other derivative transactions, to mitigate or reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. These activities will vary in scope based on the types of assets held, the level and volatility of interest rates, and other changing market conditions. No strategy, however, can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed and there is no guarantee that the implementation of any strategy would have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. These derivatives, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our capital and the cash available to us for distribution to our shareholders. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to credit risk. Risks stemming from our lending activities: The loans we originate for portfolio are primarily multi-family loans and, to a lesser extent, CRE loans, as well as ADC and C&I loans. Such loans are generally larger, and have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities, than one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our credit risk would ordinarily be expected to increase with the growth of these loan portfolios. Multi-family and CRE properties are generally believed to involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four-family mortgage loans. In addition, payments on multi-family and CRE loans generally depend on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on their successful operation and management. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans may be impacted by adverse conditions in the local real estate market and the local economy. While we seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which generally require that such loans be qualified on the basis of the collateral property’s cash flows, appraised value, and debt service coverage ratio, among other factors, there can be no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses or delinquencies. ADC financing typically involves a greater degree of credit risk than longer-term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate. Risk of loss on an ADC loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction or development, compared to the estimated costs (including interest) of construction. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be under-secured. While we seek to minimize these risks by maintaining consistent lending policies and rigorous underwriting standards, an error in such estimates or a downturn in the local economy or real estate market could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our ADC loan portfolio, thereby resulting in material losses or delinquencies. We seek to minimize the risks involved in C&I lending by underwriting such loans on the basis of the cash flows produced by the business; by requiring that such loans be collateralized by various business assets, including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable, among others; and by requiring personal guarantees. However, the capacity of a borrower to repay a C&I loan is substantially dependent on the degree to which his or her business is successful. In addition, the collateral underlying such loans may depreciate over time, may not be conducive to appraisal, or may fluctuate in value, based upon the results of operation of the business. We cannot guarantee that our record of asset quality will be maintained in future periods. The ramifications of the subprime lending crisis and the turmoil in the financial and capital markets that followed have been far-reaching, with real estate values declining and unemployment and bankruptcies rising throughout the nation, including the regions we serve. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans could be adversely impacted by the significant change in market conditions, which not only could result in our experiencing a further increase in charge-offs, but also could necessitate our further increasing our provision for loan losses. Either of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Although the credit risk associated with the $5.0 billion of loans we acquired in the AmTrust acquisition was largely mitigated by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, these loans are not without risk. Under the terms of these agreements, we will assume 20% of any losses incurred on the first $907.0 million of losses and 5% of any losses incurred above that amount. However, if the loss sharing process is not properly managed, the losses may not be fully recoverable from the FDIC, which could result in an increase in charge-offs and necessitate our increasing our provision for loan losses. Either of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, if the loans we originate for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not agency-conforming or properly documented, we could be required to repurchase the loans for our own portfolio. Risks stemming from the loans we originate in the New York metropolitan region: Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in the New York metropolitan region, where the majority of the buildings and properties securing the loans we originate for portfolio, and the businesses 28 Table of Contents of the customers to whom we make C&I loans, are located. Unlike larger national or superregional banks that serve a broader and more diverse geographic region, our lending historically has been concentrated in New York City and the surrounding markets of Nassau, Suffolk, and Westchester counties in New York, and Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union counties in New Jersey. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in this region or by changes in the local real estate market. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism, or other factors beyond our control, could therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because multi-family and CRE loans represent the majority of the loans in our portfolio, a decline in tenant occupancy or rents due to such factors, or for other reasons, could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to certain risks in connection with the level of our allowance for loan losses. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to repay any remaining indebtedness. In such an event, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the process of originating a loan, we make various assumptions and judgments about the ability of the borrower to repay it, based on the cash flows produced by the building, property, or business; the value of the real estate or other assets serving as collateral; and the creditworthiness of the borrower, among other factors. We also establish an allowance for loan losses through an assessment of probable losses in each of our loan portfolios. Several factors are considered in this process, including the level of defaulted loans at the close of each quarter; recent trends in loan performance; historical levels of loan losses; the factors underlying such loan losses and loan defaults; projected default rates and loss severities; internal risk ratings; loan size; economic, industry, and environmental factors; and impairment losses on individual loans. If our assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, as we continue to grow our loan portfolio, it may be necessary to increase the allowance for loan losses by making additional provisions, which would adversely impact our operating results. Furthermore, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reflecting the weakness of the economy and the increase in our non-performing loans and net charge-offs, we increased our allowance for loan losses substantially in 2009. For more information regarding our allowance for loan losses in recent periods, please see “Allowance for Loan Losses” in the discussion of “Critical Accounting Policies” that begins on page 43 and the discussion of “Asset Quality” that begins on page 57 of this report. We face significant competition for loans and deposits. We face significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions, both within and beyond our local markets. We compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, and investment banks for deposits, and with the same financial institutions and others (including mortgage brokers, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage houses) for loans. We also compete with companies that solicit loans and deposits over the Internet. Many of our competitors (including money center, national, and superregional banks) have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do, and may offer certain products and services that we cannot. Because our profitability stems from our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. 29 Table of Contents Our success as a competitor depends on a number of factors, including our ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term relationships with our customers by providing them with convenience, in the form of multiple branch locations and extended hours of service; access, in the form of alternative delivery channels, such as online banking, banking by phone, and ATMs; a broad and diverse selection of products and services; interest rates and service fees that compare favorably with those of our competitors; and skilled and knowledgeable personnel to assist our customers with their financial needs. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and real estate values, changes in interest rates, and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. In addition, the mortgage banking unit we acquired in the AmTrust acquisition originates one- to four-family loans for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and competes nationally with other mortgage brokers for this business. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary sources of liquidity are the deposits we acquire in connection with our acquisitions and those we gather organically through our branch network, and brokered deposits; borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB and various Wall Street brokerage firms; the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities; and the cash flows from the sale of loans and securities. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Additionally, replacing funds in the event of large-scale withdrawals of brokered deposits could require us to pay significantly higher interest rates on retail deposits or other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and our earnings. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. Our goodwill may be determined to be impaired. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently, if necessary. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are to be used as the basis for measuring impairment, when available. Other acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If we were to determine that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the value of the goodwill on our balance sheet. This, in turn, would result in a charge against earnings and, thus, a reduction in our stockholders’ equity. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. To a large degree, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel whose expertise, knowledge of our markets, and years of industry experience would make them difficult to replace. Competition for skilled leaders in our industry can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we would like to have working for us. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, given the specialized knowledge of such personnel and the difficulty of finding qualified replacements on a timely basis. To attract and retain personnel with the skills and knowledge to support our business, we offer a variety of benefits that may reduce our earnings. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on, and take title to, properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by acts of war or terrorism. Acts of war or terrorism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of our depositors to maintain their deposits with the Banks. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws, regulations, and regulatory enforcement. We are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the New York State Banking Department, which is the chartering authority for both the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank; by the FDIC, as the insurer of the Banks’ deposits; and by the Federal Reserve Bank. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a bank holding company and its banking subsidiaries may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the banking system in general, and customers, and not for the benefit of a company’s stockholders. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including with respect to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank or a bank holding company, the imposition of significant fines, the ability to delay or deny merger applications, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses, among other matters. Any failure to comply with, or any change in, such regulation and supervision, or change in regulation or enforcement by such authorities, whether in the form of policy, regulations, legislation, rules, orders, enforcement actions, or decisions, could have a material impact on the Company, our subsidiary banks, and our operations. Our operations are also subject to extensive legislation enacted, and regulation implemented, by other federal, state, and local governmental authorities, and to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including those pertaining to banking, lending, and taxation, among other matters, we may be subject to future changes in such laws, rules, and regulations that could have a material impact on our results of operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the higher levels imposed in 2009. These increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums or taxes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with taxation. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. We may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assesses additional taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated effective tax rate either due to a change to tax law, a change in regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment which denies previously recognized tax benefits. Recent legislative and regulatory proposals in response to developments in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry is being considered in the U.S. Congress, including, among other things, the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank has proposed guidance on incentive compensation at the banking organizations it regulates and the United States Department of the Treasury and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established thereunder by federal and state governments to address the current economic crisis, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available, and our ability to maintain our dividend. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology. Risks associated with systems failures, interruptions, or breaches of security: Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with changes in technology: Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries. The Parent Company (i.e., the company on an unconsolidated basis) is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Banks, and a substantial portion of the revenues the Parent Company receives consists of dividends from the Banks. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock and the interest and principal payments on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If the Banks are unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Banks could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain or increase the current level of cash dividends paid to our shareholders. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our strategy of growing through mergers and acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth in the past, and continue to be a key component of our business model. Accordingly, it is possible that we could acquire other financial institutions, financial service providers, or branches of banks in the future, including as part of one or more additional acquisitions from the FDIC acting in its capacity as receiver for such financial institutions. However, our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions depends on our ability to identify suitable merger partners and acquisition opportunities, our ability to finance and complete such transactions on acceptable terms and at acceptable prices, our ability to bid competitively for FDIC-assisted transactions, and our ability to receive the necessary regulatory and, where required, shareholder approvals. Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • Our ability to integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and the internal controls and regulatory functions into our current operations; • The diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • Our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage the loans we acquire; • Our ability to attract new deposits, and to generate new interest-earning assets, in geographic areas we have not previously served; • Our success in deploying any cash received in a transaction into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • Our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • Our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches and conduct any acquired operations; • Our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches; • Our ability to address an increase in working capital requirements; and • Limitations on our ability to successfully reposition the post-merger balance sheet, when deemed appropriate. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches as in our AmTrust acquisition, there may be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integrating acquired branches is an operation of substantial size and expense, and may be affected by general market and economic conditions or government actions affecting the financial industry 33 Table of Contents in general. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management’s attention and resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors, and employees, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration process that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of acquired branches would not adversely affect our existing profitability; that we would be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business; that we would be able to compete effectively in the market areas served by acquired branches; or that we would be able to manage any growth resulting from a transaction effectively. In particular, our ability to compete effectively in new markets is dependent on our ability to understand those markets and their competitive dynamics, and our ability to retain certain key employees from the acquired institution who know those markets better than we do. Any of these factors, among others, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we undertake. The acquisition of assets and liabilities of financial institutions in FDIC-sponsored or assisted transactions involves risks similar to those faced when acquiring existing financial institutions, even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, e.g., entering into loss sharing arrangements. However, because such acquisitions are structured in a manner that does not allow the time normally associated with evaluating and preparing for the integration of an acquired institution, we face the additional risk that the anticipated benefits of such an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or within the time period expected. Risks Specific to the AmTrust Acquisition Changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions could lead to higher delinquencies or defaults in connection with the AmTrust acquisition, all of which may not be supported by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. We acquired a significant nationwide portfolio of one- to four-family loans in the AmTrust acquisition. Although this loan portfolio was initially accounted for at fair value, there is no assurance that the loans we acquired will not become impaired, which may result in charge-offs to this portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional, and local economic conditions may increase the level of charge-offs on the loans we acquired in the transaction and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements which provide that the FDIC will bear a significant portion of any losses related to the loan portfolios we acquired in the AmTrust acquisition, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to the acquired loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-offs that we experience after the terms of the loss sharing agreements have ended may not be fully recoverable from the FDIC, which would negatively impact our net income. Loans acquired in the AmTrust acquisition may not be covered by the loss sharing agreements if the FDIC determines that we have not adequately managed these agreements. Although the FDIC has agreed to reimburse us for 80% of losses on covered loans up to $907.0 million and 95% of losses on covered loans beyond that amount, the FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan losses if the loss sharing agreements are not managed in accordance with their terms. 34 Table of Contents Loans originated by AmTrust’s mortgage banking unit for sale may not be agency-conforming or provide required documentation. The mortgage banking unit we acquired in the AmTrust acquisition originates one- to four-family loans throughout the country for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. If a loan we originate is not in conformance with the pertinent guidelines, and/or Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac find that the documentation provided upon the sale of a loan was defective, we could be required to repurchase the loan for our own portfolio. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Among other factors, these risks may be affected by: • operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors; • developments in our business or in the financial services sector generally; • regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; • operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by us or our competitors; and • changes or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations. Furthermore, given recent and ongoing market and economic conditions, the market price of our common stock may be subject to further significant market fluctuations. The recession that began in the second half of 2007 has continued to have an adverse impact on real estate values; in addition, foreclosure filings are increasing and unemployment remains atypically high. These factors have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage and other loans, and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting economic pressure on property owners and other borrowers, and the lack of confidence in the financial markets in general, has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business and results of operations. In addition, stock markets around the world have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility, with shares of financial services firms being adversely impacted, in particular. While the U.S. and other governments continue to take action to restore confidence in the financial markets and to promote job creation and economic growth, continued or further market and economic turmoil could occur in the near or long term, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and volatility in the price and trading volume of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds available for such payments under applicable law and regulatory guidance. Furthermore, regulatory agencies may impose further restrictions on the payment of dividends in the future. In addition, although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock. Shares of our common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. Accordingly, shares of our common stock rank junior to all indebtedness of, and other non-equity claims on, the Company with respect to assets available to satisfy claims. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock we may issue. 35 Table of Contents Various factors could make a takeover attempt of the Company more difficult to achieve. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, in addition to certain federal banking laws and regulations, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company without the consent of our Board of Directors, even if doing so were perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions also make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management or to appoint new directors, and also regulate the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations, and qualification for service on our Board of Directors. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with certain executive officers and directors that would require payments to be made to them in the event that their employment was terminated following a change in control of the Company or the Banks. These payments may have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring the Company. The combination of these provisions could effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. If we defer payments on our trust preferred capital debt securities or are in default under the related indentures, we will be prohibited from making distributions on our common stock. The terms of our outstanding trust preferred capital debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock, or purchasing, acquiring or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable indenture, we are in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related trust preferred securities, or we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. In addition, without notice to, or consent from, the holders of our common stock, we may issue additional series of trust preferred capital debt securities with similar terms or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or pay dividends or distributions on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 