Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and “Cautionary Statements Concerning Forward Looking Statements” in Part I, of this Annual Report. Table of Contents Page Overview 37 Liquidity 42 Capital Resources 46 Results of Operations 46 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 48 Contractual Obligations 50 Overview General. We are a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust formed under the laws of the State of Maryland. We operate primarily in one segment and our primary business is the investment in and the acquisition, ownership and management of a geographically diverse portfolio of net-leased office, industrial and retail properties. As of December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in approximately 210 consolidated real estate properties, located in 40 states and the Netherlands and encompassing approximately 38.3 million square feet. Substantially all of our properties are subject to triple net or similar leases, where the tenant bears all or substantially all of the costs and/or cost increases for real estate taxes, utilities, insurance and ordinary repairs. Our revenues and cash flows are generated predominantly from property rent receipts. As a result, growth in revenues and cash flows is directly correlated to our ability to (1) acquire income producing real estate assets, (2) to re-lease properties that are vacant, or may become vacant at favorable rental rates and (3) earn fee income. General State of the Economy. Our business continues to be impacted in a number of ways by the uncertainty in the overall economy and volatility in the capital markets, including (1) a need to preserve capital, generate additional liquidity and improve our overall financial flexibility, (2) difficulty obtaining attractive financing and an increased cost of capital, (3) a decrease in property acquisitions, (4) a decrease in market sales prices for our assets, (5) an increase in impairment charges on our assets and (6) tenant defaults and bankruptcies. It is difficult for us to predict how severe the impact will be to our business and how long the uncertainty and volatility will continue. In an effort to diversify, we lease our properties to tenants in various industries, including finance/insurance, energy, technology, automotive and service. Tenant defaults at our properties could negatively impact our operating results. Leased space was approximately 91.5% at December 31, 2009, down approximately 1.8 percentage points from last year. We may continue to lose occupancy during 2010 due to current economic factors, which may include increased tenant defaults and bankruptcies or government conservatorship of tenants and the desire of certain tenants to contract leased space. Our principal sources of liquidity have been (1) undistributed cash flows generated from our investments, (2) the public and private equity and debt markets, including issuances of OP units, (3) property specific debt, (4) corporate level borrowings, (5) commitments from co-investment partners and (6) proceeds from sales of our investments. We expect that certain of these sources may be unavailable to us at times if the uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets continues. We have consolidated property specific non-recourse debt with an aggregate of $106.0 million in balloon payments that mature in 2010. We also have (1) interest rate swap agreements and (2) a forward equity commitment on our common shares. The counterparties of these arrangements are major financial institutions; however, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties. In addition, we may be required to make additional prepayments pursuant to our forward equity commitment if the value of the underlying equity falls below a specific threshold. As of December 31, 2009, the forward equity commitment has an outstanding balance of $4.0 million and must be settled by October 2011 in cash, common shares, or a combination of cash and common shares at our election. 37 Business Strategy. Our current business strategy is focused on ways to reduce leverage, preserve capital, generate additional liquidity and revenue and improve our overall financial flexibility. See “Business” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report for a detailed description of our current business strategy. We believe a positive impact is resulting from our business strategy. In 2009, we reduced our overall consolidated indebtedness by $305.6 million primarily by repurchasing our 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes at a discount and through the sale, transfer or other disposition of properties to third parties and lenders. We expect our business strategy will enable us to continue to improve our liquidity and strengthen our overall balance sheet, which will position us to take advantage of business opportunities upon the stabilization of the financial markets and create meaningful shareholder value. Acquisition Trends. Acquiring income producing real estate assets is one of our primary focuses. The challenge we face is finding investments that will provide an attractive return without compromising our real estate underwriting criteria. While we believe we have access to acquisition opportunities due to our relationship with developers, brokers, corporate users and sellers, our acquisition activity decreased during the last few years as a result of market conditions. As capitalization rates on investment opportunities began to compress at the end of 2006, we began to decrease our acquisition activity. Following the Newkirk Merger, our real estate acquisition activity consisted primarily of acquiring the interests that we did not already own in certain of our co-investment programs. During 2007, acquisition activity was low, except for the acquisition of 48 primarily single-tenant net-lease assets from our co-investment programs. During 2008 and 2009, acquisition activity continued to decrease as we focused on retiring senior debt and preferred securities at a discount. In response to the compression in capitalization rates, we refocused our efforts into (1) repurchasing our senior debt at what we believe were attractive and secure yields to maturity and (2) disposing of real estate assets in compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements. Despite the current economic instability, we continue to review single investment acquisitions and strategic transactions including forming new co-investment programs and joint ventures. When we do acquire real estate assets, we look for general purpose office and industrial real estate assets subject to a long-term net lease which have one or more of the following characteristics (1) a credit-worthy tenant; (2) adaptability to a variety of users, including multi-tenant use; and (3) an attractive geographic location. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to see an increase in our acquisition activity. Our recent acquisition activity consists primarily of debt investments secured by real estate assets, which we feel comfortable owning should the borrower default for reasons other than an underlying tenant default. We expect acquisition activity for net-lease assets to increase if and when general market conditions improve. On December 31, 2009, we acquired an office property in Greenville, South Carolina leased to Canal Insurance Company for $10.5 million. Canal Insurance Company has an option to purchase the property on December 31, 2014 at fair market value, but not less than $10.7 million and not greater than $11.6 million. If Canal Insurance Company fails to exercise its purchase option, we have the right to require it to purchase the property for $10.7 million. Our acquisition activity subsequent to December 31, 2009 consists primarily of loan investments where the underlying collateral is real estate. We made a 15%, $11.0 million mortgage loan on an office building in Schaumburg, Illinois, which matures January 15, 2012 but can be extended one additional year by the borrower for a 50 basis point fee. The property is leased to Career Education Corporation from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2022 for an average annual rent of $4.0 million. In addition to the initial $11.0 million investment, we are obligated to fund an additional $7.6 million over the two-year term of the mortgage upon the occurrence of certain events. If the borrower exercises the one-year extension option and certain other events occur, we will become obligated to fund an additional $12.2 million for tenant improvement costs. We also made a $17.0 million mezzanine loan secured by a combination of limited partner interests in entities that own, and second mortgage liens against, five medical facilities. The mezzanine loan is guaranteed by a parent entity and principal and matures in January 2012 and requires payments of interest only at a rate of 14% for the first year and 16% thereafter. Leasing Trends. Re-leasing properties as leases expire and properties currently vacant at favorable effective rates is one of our primary focuses. The primary risks associated with re-tenanting properties are (1) the period of time required to find a new tenant, (2) whether rental rates will be lower than previously received, (3) the significance of leasing costs such as commissions and tenant improvement allowances and (4) the payment of operating costs such as real estate taxes and insurance while there is no offsetting revenue. 38 We try to mitigate these risks by contacting tenants well in advance of lease maturity to get an understanding of their occupancy needs, contacting local brokers to determine the depth of the rental market and retaining local expertise to assist in the re-tenanting of a property. However, no assurance can be given that once a property becomes vacant it will subsequently be re-let. If a property cannot be re-let to a single user and the property can be adapted to multi-tenant use, we determine whether the costs of adapting the property to multi-tenant use outweigh the benefit of funding operating costs while searching for a single-tenant. Certain of the long-term leases on our properties contain provisions that may mitigate the adverse impact of inflation on our operating results. Such provisions include clauses entitling us to receive (1) scheduled fixed base rent increases and (2) base rent increases based upon the consumer price index. In addition, a majority of the leases on our properties require tenants to pay operating expenses, including maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses. In addition, the leases on our properties are generally structured in a way that minimizes our responsibility for capital improvements. We continue to monitor the credit of our tenants and are particularly focused on our tenants in the financial, retail and automotive industries. Under current bankruptcy law, a tenant can generally assume or reject a lease within a certain number of days of filing its bankruptcy petition. If a tenant rejects the lease, our damages are generally limited to the greater of (1) one year’s rent and (2) the rent for 15%, not to exceed three years, of the remaining term of the lease. We own 15 consolidated properties totaling approximately 3.8 million square feet with aggregate annual rental revenues of approximately $29.0 million that are leased to tenants in the automotive industry. The primary business of these tenants is supply, manufacturing and installation. We are closely monitoring the automotive industry in general and our tenants within that industry. In addition to automotive tenants, we closely monitor the credit of all our tenants. Circuit City Stores, Inc. was our tenant in our office building located in Richmond, Virginia, which was part of its headquarter campus. On January 16, 2009, Circuit City Stores, Inc. announced that it had begun the process to liquidate its assets and rejected its lease for our facility. During 2009, the property was conveyed to the mortgage lender through a foreclosure in satisfaction of the $15.5 million outstanding mortgage loan following the determination that the mortgage balance exceeded the value of the property and there were no viable leasing prospects. Vastar Resources, Inc. was our tenant in our office building located in Houston, Texas. On September 15, 2009, their lease expired and they vacated the building. On December 11, 2009, Lexington Memorial LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary that held title to the property declared bankruptcy and the bankruptcy estate took title to the property and succeeded to the obligations of the related approximate $18.2 million mortgage. The bankruptcy filing was made following the determination that the mortgage balance exceeded the value of the property and there were no viable leasing prospects. Johnson Controls Inc. was our tenant in our industrial building in Plymouth, Michigan. On August 31, 2007, their lease expired and they vacated the facility. The property was conveyed to the lender through foreclosure in December 2009 in satisfaction of the $4.3 million outstanding mortgage loan following the determination that the mortgage balance exceeded the value of the property and there were no viable leasing prospects. Impairment charges. During 2009, we incurred substantial impairment charges on our assets due to current economic conditions. Three real estate assets (Richmond, Virginia property previously leased to Circuit City Stores, Inc., Houston, Texas previously leased to Vastar Resources, Inc. and Plymouth, Michigan property previously leased to Johnson Controls Inc.) with an aggregate carrying value of $60.0 million were written down to their estimated aggregate fair value of $24.7 million in anticipation of foreclosure by their respective mortgage lenders or other disposition, resulting in aggregate impairment charges of $35.3 million. We also recognized aggregate impairments in 2009 of $25.8 million on four properties classified in continuing operations as a result of triggering events with respect to the properties. Three of these properties with an aggregate carrying value of $11.5 million were written down to their aggregate estimated fair value of zero as we have determined that it is unlikely that we will recover any of our investment. In addition, we adjusted the $51.3 million carrying value of our property in San Francisco, California to its estimated fair value of $37.0 million due to an anticipated restructuring of the property’s entity structure and debt. In addition, we recognized impairments of $38.5 million on real estate assets which were disposed of below their carrying value. These assets were non-core or non-performing assets and we used the net proceeds from these sales to deleverage our balance sheet. 39 We determined that two of our investments in non-consolidated entities incurred other-than-temporary impairments in 2009 and recognized $74.7 million of impairment charges in equity in earnings (losses) from non-consolidated entities relating to these assets. Concord experienced declines in the fair value of its loan securities consistent with liquidity concerns impacting the commercial bond and real estate markets and the overall economy. Concord has recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2009 and 2008. As a result of these charges and other factors, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $68.2 million on our investment in Lex-Win Concord during 2009, reducing the carrying value of our investment to zero. In addition, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.5 million on our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture acquired in the Newkirk Merger during 2009 due to the expiration of the net-lease on the hotel asset owned by the joint venture. We subsequently sold our interest in this joint venture for a nominal amount to another partner in the joint venture. We have also incurred loan losses on our notes receivable assets during 2009. During the first quarter of 2009, we agreed to the discounted payoff of two notes receivable with an aggregate carrying value of $5.0 million. During 2009, we wrote the notes receivable down to the aggregate agreed upon discounted payoff amount of $3.9 million, which approximated fair value and recognized a loan loss reserve of $1.1 million. In addition, we sold investments in debt securities for $9.5 million during 2009 and realized a loss of $0.5 million. The proceeds from these transactions were used to reduce corporate level debt. Critical Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Guidance. Our accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require our management to make estimates that affect the amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities reported. A summary of our significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting guidance which are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations is set forth in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 62 of this Annual Report and incorporated herein. The following is a summary of our critical accounting policies and recently issued accounting guidance, which require some of management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. The financial statements reflect our accounts and the accounts of our consolidated subsidiaries. We consolidate our wholly-owned subsidiaries, partnerships and joint ventures which we control through (i) voting rights or similar rights or (ii) by means other than voting rights if we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, which we refer to as a VIE. Entities which we do not control and entities which are VIE's in which we are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for by the equity method. Significant judgments and assumptions are made by us to determine whether an entity is a VIE such as those regarding an entity’s equity at risk, the entity’s equity holder’s obligation to absorb anticipated losses and other factors. In addition, the determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE requires judgments and assumptions to determine the party that will incur a majority of the VIE’s anticipated losses and/or a majority of its expected returns. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued guidance which modifies the existing quantitative guidance used in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE by requiring entities to qualitatively assess whether an enterprise is a primary beneficiary, based on whether the entity has (i) power over the significant activities of the VIE, and (ii) an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. The adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2010 is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Judgments and Estimates. Our management has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses to prepare these consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These estimates and assumptions are based on our management’s best estimates and judgment. Our management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Our management adjusts such estimates when facts and circumstances dictate. The most significant estimates made include the recoverability of accounts receivable, allocation of property purchase price to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the determination if certain entities should be consolidated, the determination of impairment of long-lived assets, notes receivable and equity method investments, valuation and impairment of assets held by equity method investees, valuation of derivative financial instruments, and the useful lives of long-lived assets. Purchase Accounting and Acquisition of Real Estate. The fair value of the real estate acquired, which includes the impact of fair value adjustments for assumed mortgage debt related to property acquisitions, is allocated to the acquired tangible assets, consisting of land, building and improvements, and identified intangible assets and liabilities, consisting of the value of above-market and below-market leases, other value of in-place leases and value of tenant relationships, based in each case on their fair values. 40 The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property (which includes land, building and improvements and fixtures and equipment) is determined by valuing the property as if it were vacant, and the “as-if-vacant” value is then allocated to land, building and improvements based on our management’s determination of relative fair values of these assets. Factors considered by our management in performing these analyses include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, our management includes real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up periods based on current market demand. Our management also estimates costs to execute similar leases including leasing commissions. In allocating the fair value of the identified intangible assets and liabilities of an acquired property, above-market and below-market lease values are recorded based on the difference between the current in-place lease rent and management’s estimate of current market rents. Below-market lease intangibles are recorded as part of deferred revenue and amortized into rental revenue over the non-cancelable periods and bargain renewal periods of the respective leases. Above-market leases are recorded as part of intangible assets and amortized as a direct charge against rental revenue over the non-cancelable portion of the respective leases. The aggregate value of other acquired intangible assets, consisting of in-place leases and tenant relationship values, is measured by the excess of (1) the purchase price paid for a property over (2) the estimated fair value of the property as if vacant, determined as set forth above. This aggregate value is allocated between in-place lease values and tenant relationship values based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease. The value of in-place leases are amortized to expense over the remaining non-cancelable periods and any bargain renewal periods of the respective leases. The value of tenant relationships is amortized to expense over the applicable lease term plus expected renewal periods. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic and rational basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the use benefit is derived from the leased property. Renewal options in leases with rental terms that are lower than those in the primary term are excluded from the calculation of straight line rent if the renewals are not reasonably assured. In those instances in which we fund tenant improvements and the improvements are deemed to be owned by us, revenue recognition will commence when the improvements are substantially completed and possession or control of the space is turned over to the tenant. When we determine that the tenant allowances are lease incentives, we commence revenue recognition when possession or control of the space is turned over to the tenant for tenant work to begin. The lease incentive is recorded as a deferred expense and amortized as a reduction of revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease term. Determining if a tenant allowance is a lease incentive requires significant judgment. We recognize lease termination payments as a component of rental revenue in the period received, provided that there are no further obligations under the lease. All above market lease assets, below market lease liabilities and deferred rent assets or liabilities for terminated leases are charged against or credited to rental revenue in the period the lease is terminated. All other capitalized lease costs and lease intangibles are accelerated via amortization expense to the date of termination. Gains on sales of real estate are recognized based on the specific timing of the sale as measured against various criteria related to the terms of the transactions and any continuing involvement associated with the properties. If the sales criteria are not met, the gain is deferred and the finance, installment or cost recovery method, as appropriate, is applied until the sales criteria are met. To the extent we sell a property and retain a partial ownership interest in the property, we recognize gain to the extent of the third-party ownership interest. Accounts Receivable. We continuously monitor collections from our tenants and would make a provision for estimated losses based upon historical experience and any specific tenant collection issues that we have identified. Impairment of Real Estate. We evaluate the carrying value of all tangible and intangible real estate assets for possible impairment when an event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates its carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation includes estimating and reviewing anticipated future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. If such cash flows are less than the asset’s carrying value, an impairment charge is recognized to the extent by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. Estimating future cash flows is highly subjective and such estimates could differ materially from actual results. Impairment of Equity Method Investments. We assess whether there are indicators that the value of our equity method investments may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired if we determine that a decline in the value of the investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary. The assessment of impairment is highly subjective and involves the application of significant assumptions and judgments about our intent and ability to recover our investment given the nature and operations of the underlying investment, including the level of our involvement therein, among other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated value of the investment. 41 Notes Receivable. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of our notes, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether it is impaired. A note is considered to be impaired, when based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a note is considered to be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the note’s effective interest rate. Interest on impaired notes is recognized on a cash basis. Fair Value Measurements. We follow the guidance in FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which we refer to as ASC, Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which we refer to as Topic 820, to determine the fair value of financial and non-financial investments. Topic 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Topic 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three levels: Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for assets or liabilities; Level 2 – observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted in active markets, but corroborated by market data; and Level 3 – unobservable inputs that are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. In determining fair value, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible as well as consider counterparty credit risk, where applicable, in our assessment of fair value. The accounting for these critical accounting policies and recently issued accounting guidance involves the making of estimates based on current facts, circumstances and assumptions which could change in a manner that would materially affect management’s future estimates with respect to such matters. Accordingly, future reported financial conditions and results could differ materially from financial conditions and results reported based on management’s current estimates. Liquidity General. Since becoming a public company, our principal sources of liquidity have been (1) undistributed cash flows generated from our investments, (2) the public and private equity and debt markets, including issuances of OP units, (3) property specific debt, (4) corporate level borrowings, (5) commitments from co-investment partners, and (6) proceeds from the sales of our investments. Our ability to incur additional debt to fund acquisitions is dependent upon our existing leverage, the value of the assets we are attempting to leverage and general economic and credit market conditions, which may be outside of management’s control or influence. Cash Flows. We believe that cash flows from operations will continue to provide adequate capital to fund our operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, we anticipate that cash on hand, borrowings under our credit facility, issuances of equity and debt and co-investment programs, as well as other alternatives, will be available to provide the necessary capital required by us. Cash flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows totaled $159.3 million for 2009, $230.2 million for 2008 and $287.7 million for 2007. The underlying drivers that impact working capital and therefore cash flows from operations are the timing of collection of rents, including reimbursements from tenants, the collection of advisory fees, payment of interest on mortgage debt and payment of operating and general and administrative costs. We believe the net-lease structure of the majority of our tenants’ leases enhances cash flows from operations since the payment and timing of operating costs related to the properties are generally borne directly by the tenant. Collection and timing of tenant rents is closely monitored by management as part of our cash management program. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities totaled $112.0 million in 2009, $230.1 million in 2008 and ($31.5) million in 2007. Cash provided by investing activities related primarily to proceeds from the sale of properties, collection of notes receivable, distributions from non-consolidated entities in excess of accumulated earnings, proceeds from the sale of marketable equity and debt securities and change in escrow deposits and restricted cash. Cash used in investing activities related primarily to investments in real estate properties, co-investment programs, notes receivable, an increase in deferred leasing costs and the purchase of noncontrolling interests. Therefore, the fluctuation in investing activities relates primarily to the timing of investments and dispositions. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities totaled ($285.2) million in 2009, ($804.6) million in 2008 and $39.0 million in 2007. Cash provided by financing activities during each year was primarily attributable to proceeds from equity offerings, non-recourse mortgages and corporate borrowings offset by dividend and distribution payments, repurchases of equity interests, forward equity commitment payments, an increase in deferred financing costs and debt payments and repurchases. 42 Public and Private Equity and Debt Markets. We access the public and private equity and debt markets when we believe conditions are favorable and we have a compelling use of proceeds. During 2009, we issued approximately 4.3 million common shares under our direct share purchase plan raising net proceeds of approximately $20.9 million. During 2008, we issued approximately 3.5 million common shares raising net proceeds of approximately $47.2 million. We primarily used these proceeds to retire indebtedness. During 2007, we issued, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, $200.0 million in Trust Preferred Securities, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.804% through April 2017 and thereafter at a variable rate of three month LIBOR plus 170 basis points through maturity. These securities are (1) classified as debt; (2) due in 2037; and (3) redeemable by us commencing April 2012. During 2008, we repurchased, through unsolicited offers, $70.9 million of these securities for $44.6 million in cash, which resulted in a gain on debt extinguishment of $24.7 million including a write off of $1.6 million in deferred financing costs. During 2007, we issued an aggregate $450.0 million of 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes due in 2027. These notes can be put to us commencing in 2012 and every five years thereafter through maturity. The notes are currently exchangeable by the holders into common shares at a price of $19.49 per share, subject to adjustment upon certain events, including increases in our dividend rate above a certain threshold. Upon exchange, the holders of the notes would receive (1) cash equal to the principal amount of the note and (2) to the extent the exchange value exceeds the principal amount of the note, either cash or common shares at our option. During 2008, we repurchased $239.0 million original principal amount of the notes for $169.5 million in cash and 1.6 million common shares having a value at issuance of $23.5 million (or $14.50 per share), which resulted in gains on debt extinguishment of $36.0 million, including write-offs of $12.8 million of the unamortized debt discount and deferred financing costs. During 2009, we repurchased an additional $123.4 million original principal amount of the notes for $101.0 million, which resulted in gains on debt extinguishment of $17.4 million, including write-offs of $5.0 million of the unamortized debt discount and deferred financing costs. During the first quarter of 2010, we issued $115.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes. The notes pay interest semi-annually in arrears and mature on January 15, 2030. The holders of the notes may require us to repurchase their notes on January 15, 2017, January 15, 2020 and January 15, 2025 for cash equal to 100% of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We may not redeem any notes prior to January 15, 2017, except to preserve our REIT status. The notes have an initial conversion rate of 141.1383 common shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, representing a conversion price of approximately $7.09 per common share. The initial conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The notes are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances for cash, common shares or a combination of cash and common shares at our election. During 2008, we (1) repurchased 1.2 million common shares at an average price of $14.28 per share and (2) repurchased and retired 501,700 shares of our Series C Preferred Shares by issuing 0.7 million common shares and paying $7.5 million in cash. The difference between the cost to retire these Series C Preferred Shares and their historical cost was $5.7 million and is treated as an increase to shareholders equity and as a reduction in preferred dividends paid for calculating earnings per share. During 2009, we converted 503,100 shares of our Series C Preferred shares by issuing 3.0 million common shares. The difference between the fair value of the common shares issued pursuant to the original conversion terms of $7.0 million is considered a deemed dividend and as such is recorded as a reduction in shareholders’ equity and as an increase to preferred dividends paid for calculating earnings per share. During 2008, we also entered into a forward equity commitment to purchase 3.5 million of our common shares at a price of $5.60 per share, we have prepaid $15.6 million of the $19.6 million purchase price as of December 31, 2009, agreed to make floating payments during the term of the forward purchase at LIBOR plus 250 basis points per annum and we retain all cash dividend payments. UPREIT Structure. Our UPREIT structure permits us to effect acquisitions by issuing to a property owner, as a form of consideration in exchange for the property, OP units in our operating partnerships. Substantially all outstanding OP units are redeemable by the holder at certain times on a one OP unit for approximately 1.13 common shares or, at our election, with respect to certain OP units, cash. Substantially all outstanding OP units require us to pay quarterly distributions to the holders of such OP units equal to the dividends paid to our common shareholders on an as redeemed basis and the remaining OP units have stated distributions in accordance with their respective partnership agreement. To the extent that our dividend per share is less than a stated distribution per unit per the applicable partnership agreement, the stated distributions per unit are reduced by the percentage reduction in our dividend. We are party to a funding agreement with our operating partnerships under which we may be required to fund distributions made on account of OP units. No OP units have a liquidation preference. The number of common shares that will be outstanding in the future should be expected to increase, and income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests should be expected to decrease (increase), as such OP units are redeemed for our common shares. 43 On December 31, 2008, the MLP merged with and into us and 6.4 million OP units were exchanged into an equal number of common shares. As of December 31, 2009, there were 4.8 million OP units outstanding. Of the total OP units outstanding, approximately 1.5 million are held by related parties. Property Specific Debt. We generally finance our business with property specific, non-recourse mortgage debt as well as corporate level debt. As of December 31, 2009, we have balloon payments of $106.0 million of property specific, non-recourse mortgage debt maturing during 2010. We believe we have sufficient sources of liquidity to meet these obligations through cash on hand ($53.9 million), borrowing capacity on our revolving credit facility ($96.6 million at December 31, 2009), which expires in 2011, but can be extended by us to 2012, and future cash flow from operations. We are currently in discussions with the lender of the mortgage secured by our San Francisco, California property with respect to a $19.8 million balloon payment due in March 2010 to extend the maturity of the loan up to 3 years. The mortgages encumbering our properties are generally non-recourse to us, such that we may, if appropriate, satisfy a mortgage obligation by transferring title of the property to the lender or permitting a lender to foreclose. We expect to continue to use property specific, non-recourse mortgages as we believe that by properly matching a debt obligation, including the balloon maturity risk, with a lease expiration, our cash-on-cash returns increase and the exposure to residual valuation risk is reduced. However, the current economic environment has impacted our ability to obtain property specific debt on favorable terms. In August 2009, we refinanced a $13.2 million, 8.19% non-recourse mortgage loan on a property in Fishers, Indiana which was scheduled to mature in April 2010, with an $11.5 million, 6.375% non-recourse mortgage loan which matures in August 2014. During the first quarter of 2009, we suspended debt service payments on the mortgage encumbering our property that was leased to Circuit City Stores, Inc. in Richmond, Virginia following the lease rejection and vacancy. The non-recourse loan had a balance of $15.5 million at that time. The property was conveyed to the lender in a foreclosure sale during the third quarter of 2009. In the third quarter of 2009, we suspended debt service payments on a vacant property in Plymouth, Michigan which had an outstanding mortgage balance of $4.3 million. The property was conveyed to the lender in December 2009. In addition, we did not make an $18.2 million balloon payment on a property in Houston, Texas which was due in October 2009. The special purpose entity that owned the property declared bankruptcy in December 2009 and the property and related debt were assumed by the bankruptcy estate. During 2008, we obtained or assumed $21.2 million in property specific non-recourse mortgage financings on two properties, which have a weighted-average-fixed interest rate of 6.0%. The proceeds of the financing not assumed were used to retire existing indebtedness. During 2008, we informed the lender for the mortgage secured by our property in Auburn Hills, Michigan that we would no longer make debt service payments and our intention to convey the property to the lender. The lender foreclosed on this property on December 23, 2008, and on December 31, 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with the lender, and we were released from obligations under the mortgage. Corporate Borrowings. We use corporate level borrowings, such as our secured revolving credit facility and secured term loans, to finance our investments and operations. On February 13, 2009, we entered into a secured credit facility with KeyBank, as agent, consisting of a $165.0 million term loan and an $85.0 million revolving loan. The proceeds were used to refinance our (1) $200.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $25.0 million outstanding, bore interest at 120-170 basis points over LIBOR, and was scheduled to expire in June 2009, and our (2) $225.0 million secured term loan with KeyBank, which had $174.3 million outstanding, bore interest at LIBOR plus 60 basis points, and was scheduled to mature in June 2009 (with an option to extend to December 2009 at our option). The new facility bears interest at 285 basis points over LIBOR and matures in February 2011, but can be extended to February 2012 at our option. With the consent of the lenders, we can increase the size of (1) the term loan by $135.0 million and (2) the revolving loan by $115.0 million (or $250.0 million in the aggregate, for a total facility size of $500.0 million, assuming no prepayments of the term loan are made) by adding properties to the borrowing base. 44 During the second quarter of 2009, we increased the availability under the revolving loan by $40.0 million by admitting an additional lender to the bank group, thus increasing the total facility to $290.0 million. The credit facility is secured by ownership interest pledges and guarantees by certain of our subsidiaries that in the aggregate own interests in a borrowing base of 75 properties as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, $164.3 million and $7.0 million were outstanding on the term loan and revolving loan, respectively, and we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the loan agreement. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we repaid $35.0 million of the term loan, all borrowings under the revolving loan, and increased the availability under the revolving loan by $25.0 million by admitting an additional lender to the bank group. In March 2008, we obtained $25.0 million and $45.0 million secured term loans from KeyBank. The loans are interest only at LIBOR plus 60 basis points, however we entered into an interest rate swap agreement which fixed the interest rate at 5.52%, and mature in 2013. The net proceeds of the loans of $68.0 million were used to partially repay indebtedness on three cross-collateralized mortgages. After such repayment, the amount owed on the three mortgages was $103.5 million, the three loans were combined into one loan, which is interest only instead of having a portion as self-amortizing and matures in September 2014. As of December 31, 2009, $25.0 million and $35.7 million was outstanding on each secured term loan and we were in compliance with the covenants contained in each loan document. Co-investment Programs. We believe that entering into co-investment programs and joint ventures with institutional investors and other real estate companies is a good way to access private capital while mitigating our risk in certain assets and increasing our return on equity to the extent we earn management or other fees. Capital Recycling. We attempt to effectively manage our balance sheet in order to accretively reduce leverage through cash flow management of our tenant leases, maintaining occupancy, pursuing and executing well on property dispositions, recycling of capital and accessing the capital markets when opportunities arise. During 2009, we, (i) sold properties which generated $66.6 million of net proceeds after mortgage satisfactions, (ii) raised $20.9 million from sales of common shares under our direct share purchase plan, and (iii) raised $18.1 million from the sale/maturity of debt investments. These proceeds were used to retire indebtedness encumbering our properties and corporate level debt. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $96.6 million of borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. Also, we have an approximately $210.0 million accordion feature in our secured credit facility. This feature can be exercised by providing additional properties as collateral for the borrowing base or by admitting additional lenders. However, the approval of the lenders is required for this feature to be exercised. Liquidity Needs. Our principal liquidity needs are the contractual obligations set forth under the heading “Contractual Obligations,” below, and the payment of dividends to our shareholders and distributions to the holders of OP units. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.1 billion of indebtedness, consisting of mortgages and notes payable outstanding, 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes and Trust Preferred Securities, including discounts, with a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 5.7%. Our ability to make debt service payments depends upon our rental revenues and our ability to refinance the mortgage related thereto, sell the related property, have available amounts under our secured credit facility or access other capital. Our ability to accomplish such goals will be affected by numerous economic factors affecting the real estate industry, including the availability and cost of mortgage debt at the time, our equity in the mortgaged properties, the financial condition and the operating history of the mortgaged properties, the then current tax laws and the general national, regional and local economic conditions. If we are unable to satisfy our contractual obligations and other operating costs with our cash flow from operations, we intend to use borrowings under our secured credit facility and proceeds from issuances of equity or debt securities. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal corporate income taxes on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to shareholders. In connection with our intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we expect to continue paying regular dividends to our shareholders. These dividends are expected to be paid from operating cash flows and/or from other sources. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investments, we generally intend to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio or we may issue common shares in lieu of cash dividends as currently permitted under the Code, reserving such amounts as we consider necessary for the maintenance or expansion of properties in our portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties as suitable opportunities arise, and such other factors as our Board of Trustees considers appropriate. We paid approximately $49.6 million in cash dividends to our common and preferred shareholders in 2009. Although we receive the majority of our base rental payments on a monthly basis, we intend to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution are invested by us in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. 45 Capital Resources General. Due to the net-lease structure, we historically have not incurred significant expenditures in the ordinary course of business to maintain our properties. However, particularly in 2009 and 2008, as leases have expired, we have incurred costs in extending the existing tenant leases, re-tenanting the properties with a single-tenant, or converting the property to multi-tenant. The amounts of these expenditures can vary significantly depending on tenant negotiations, market conditions and rental rates. Single-Tenant Properties. We do not anticipate significant capital expenditures at our properties that are subject to net leases since our tenants at these properties generally bear all or substantially all of the cost of property operations, maintenance and repairs. At certain single-tenant properties that are not subject to a net lease, we have a level of property operating expense responsibility. Multi-Tenant Properties. Primarily as a result of non-renewals at single-tenant net-lease properties, we have multi-tenant properties in our consolidated portfolio. While tenants are generally responsible for increases over base year expenses, we are responsible for the base-year expenses and capital expenditures at the properties. Our property in Baltimore, Maryland was previously net-leased to St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company. In April 2008, we entered into a lease termination with St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, and we assumed the direct subleases for the property. On September 30, 2009, the lease with the largest subtenant, Legg Mason, expired and the building is approximately 27% leased. We are in the process of redeveloping the property to assist with our leasing effort. We expect to upgrade the exterior façade of the building and redesign the lobby and outside plaza. We estimate these improvements will cost approximately $19.8 million and will be completed over the next several years. We also own an adjacent parcel and constructed a parking garage to increase the parking ratio at the property for $23.3 million. Our multi-tenant property in San Francisco, California is currently undergoing a seismic upgrade for an estimated cost of approximately $3.8 million. Vacant Properties. To the extent there is a vacancy in a property, we would be obligated for all operating expenses, including real estate taxes and insurance. In 2009, the lease for our Orlando, Florida property expired and following an approximately two and one-half month holdover, the tenant vacated the building. If we are unable to either sell the vacant building or lease the entire building to a single-user, we may incur significant costs to rehabilitate and convert the building to multi-tenant use. Property Expansions. Under certain leases, our tenants have the right to expand the facility located on our property. In the past we have generally funded, and in the future we intend to generally fund, these property expansions with additional secured borrowings, the repayment of which was, and will be, funded out of rental increases under the leases covering the expanded properties. Ground Leases. Our tenants generally pay the rental obligations on ground leases either directly to the fee holder or to us as increased rent. However, we are responsible for these payments under certain leases and at vacant properties. Environmental Matters. Based upon management’s ongoing review of our properties, management is not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties, which would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance, however, that (1) the discovery of environmental conditions, which were previously unknown; (2) changes in law; (3) the conduct of tenants; or (4) activities relating to properties in the vicinity of our properties, will not expose us to material liability in the future. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise adversely affect the operations of our tenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2009 compared with December 31, 2008. Of the decrease in total gross revenues in 2009 of $41.5 million, $42.5 million is attributable to rental revenue, offset by an increase in tenant reimbursements of $0.6 million and an increase in advisory and incentive fees of $0.4 million. The decrease in rental revenue is primarily due to $28.7 million recognized in connection with two lease terminations in 2008, the sale of properties to NLS in 2008 and an increase in vacancy. The decrease in interest and amortization expense of $21.3 million is due to the decrease in long-term debt. 46 The increase in property operating expense of $8.2 million is primarily due to an increase in the number of properties for which we have operating expense responsibility, including an increase in vacancies. The decrease in depreciation and amortization of $54.4 million is due primarily to the full amortization of lease intangibles and tenant improvements in 2008. Intangible assets are amortized over a shorter period of time (generally the lease term) than real estate assets. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $6.9 million is due primarily to a reduction in personnel costs and professional fees. Non-operating income decreased $16.3 million which is primarily attributable to $16.0 million of income recognized with the acquisition of land as part of a tenant's lease surrender obligation during 2008. Debt satisfaction gains (charges), net decreased $42.7 million due to the retirement of $70.9 million original principal amount of Trust Preferred Securities in 2008 and by the volume, timing and pricing of the repurchase of our 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes. The increase in the change in value of our forward equity commitment of $9.3 million was primarily a reflection of the increase in our common share price. The impairment charges and loan losses of $27.4 million consist of a $14.3 million impairment charge on an office building in San Francisco, California, $4.7 million on an office building in Pleasanton, California, $6.8 million on two retail properties and $1.6 million of loan losses on two notes receivable and a debt security investment that we sold. The decrease in gains on sale—affiliates relates to the sale of properties to NLS. Provision for income taxes decreased $0.6 million due to the merger of a taxable REIT subsidiary into us in 2008. The increase in losses of non-consolidated entities of $79.9 million is primarily due to impairment losses recognized on our investment in Lex-Win Concord. Net loss increased by $207.8 million primarily due to the net impact of items discussed above coupled with an increase of $52.6 million in loss from discontinued operations. Discontinued operations represents properties sold or held for sale. In 2009, 18 properties were sold, transferred to lenders or otherwise disposed of. In 2008, 42 properties were sold and/or foreclosed and classified as held for sale. The total discontinued operations decreased $52.6 million due to an increase in impairment charges of $57.3 million, a decrease in gains on sales of properties of $4.0 million and an increase in loss from discontinued operations of $0.2 million offset by a decrease in provision for income taxes of $0.5 million and an increase in debt satisfaction gains (charges), net of $8.4 million. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $5.1 million primarily due to the merger of the MLP with and into us on December 31, 2008. Net loss attributable to common shareholders in 2009 increased $223.9 million due to the items discussed above and an increase in preferred dividends of $11.0 million primarily due to the conversion of certain of our Series C Preferred Shares in 2009 and redemption of certain of our Series C Preferred Shares in 2008. The increase in net income in future periods will be closely tied to the level of acquisitions made by us. Without acquisitions, the sources of growth in net income are limited to index adjusted rents (such as the consumer price index), percentage rents, reduced interest expense on amortizing mortgages and variable rate indebtedness and by controlling other variable overhead costs. However, there are many factors beyond management’s control that could offset these items including, without limitation, increased interest rates and tenant monetary defaults and the other risks described in this Annual Report. Year ended December 31, 2008 compared with December 31, 2007. Of the increase in total gross revenues in 2008 of $17.0 million, (i) $19.2 million is attributable to an increase in rental revenue, primarily due to $28.7 million recognized in connection with two lease terminations and properties acquired from co-investment programs in 2007, offset by the sale/contribution of properties to NLS in 2007 and 2008, (ii) a $9.9 million increase in tenant reimbursements and (iii) offset by a decrease of $12.1 million in advisory and incentive fees. The primary decrease in advisory and incentive fees relates to promoted interests of $11.7 million earned in 2007 with respect to two former co-investment programs and one advisory agreement. 47 The decrease in interest and amortization expense of $7.7 million is due primarily to a decrease in long term debt. The increase in property operating expense of $21.6 million is primarily due to an increase in the number of properties for which we have operating expense responsibility, including vacancies and properties with tenant leases subject to expense stops and base year clauses. The increase in depreciation and amortization of $10.5 million is due primarily to the growth in real estate and intangibles in 2007 through the acquisition of properties from our co-investment programs and the acceleration of amortization of certain intangible assets relating to lease terminations in 2008. Intangible assets are amortized over a shorter period of time (generally the lease term) than real estate assets. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $8.7 million is due primarily to a reduction in (1) costs of severance agreements with former officers and (2) merger costs incurred in 2007. Non-operating income increased $13.0 million due primarily to land received in 2008 in connection with a lease termination. Debt satisfaction gains (charges), net changed $60.9 million primarily due to gains recognized on the retirement of our 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes and Trust Preferred Securities in 2008. The change in value of forward equity commitment represents the change in value of the prepaid portion of our forward purchase equity contract entered into in 2008. The increase in gains on sale— affiliates relates to the sale of properties to NLS. The equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated entities changed $89.8 million and is primarily due to a decrease in earnings in our investment in Lex-Win Concord of $35.3 million due to impairment charges and loan loss reserves of $104.9 million recognized by Lex-Win Concord, our share of which was $52.4 million; losses of $16.9 million recognized on our investment in NLS in 2008; and gains on sale realized of $34.2 million in 2007 relating to the dissolution of one of our former co-investment programs. Net income decreased by $95.4 million primarily due to a decrease of $92.9 million in income from discontinued operations and the net impact of items discussed above. In 2008, 42 properties were sold and/or foreclosed and classified as held for sale, compared to 56 properties sold and classified as held for sale in 2007. The total discontinued operations, which represents properties sold or held for sale, decreased $92.9 million due to a decrease in income from discontinued operations of $27.8 million and a decrease in gains on sales of properties of $79.7 million, offset by a decrease in impairment charges of $0.7 million, a decrease in the provision for income taxes of $2.9 million and a change in debt satisfaction gains (charges), net of $11.0 million. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $22.9 million primarily due to a decrease in gain on sale of properties and the exchange of OP units held by limited partners in the MLP for common shares. Net loss attributable to common shareholders in 2008 was $18.5 million compared to net income attributable to common shareholders in 2007 of $48.5 million. The decrease is due to the items discussed above plus a reduction in Series C Preferred Share dividends of $1.2 million and a redemption discount of $5.7 million due to the repurchase of certain of our Series C Preferred Shares offset by an increase of $1.4 million in Series D Preferred Share dividends. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements General. As of December 31, 2009, we had investments in various real estate entities with varying structures. The real estate investments owned by the entities are financed with non-recourse debt. Non-recourse debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the members or partners of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents. These exceptions generally relate to limited circumstances including breaches of material representations. Net Lease Strategic Assets Fund L.P. NLS is a co-investment program with Inland NLS. NLS was established to acquire single-tenant net-lease specialty real estate in the United States. Other than the acquisition of the initial 43 properties and a 40% tenant-in-common interest in a property from us in 2007 and 2008, NLS has not acquired any additional properties. 48 Inland NLS and we are currently entitled to a return on/of each of our respective investments as follows: (1) Inland NLS, 9% on its common equity ($220.6 million in common equity), (2) us, 6.5% on our preferred equity ($162.5 million in preferred equity), (3) us, 9% on our common equity ($38.9 million in common equity), (4) return of our preferred equity ($162.5 million in preferred equity), (5) return of Inland NLS common equity ($220.6 million in common equity), (6) return of our common equity ($38.9 million in common equity) and (7) any remaining cash flow is allocated 65% to Inland NLS and 35% to us as long as we are the general partner, if not, allocations are 85% to Inland NLS and 15% to us. In addition to the initial capital contributions, we and Inland NLS committed to invest up to an additional $22.5 million and $127.5 million, respectively, in NLS to acquire additional specialty single-tenant net-leased assets. LRA has entered into a management agreement with NLS whereby LRA will receive (1) a management fee of 0.375% of the equity capital, as defined, (2) a property management fee of up to 3.0% of actual gross revenues from certain assets for which the landlord is obligated to provide property management services (contingent upon the recoverability of such fees from the tenant under the applicable lease), and (3) an acquisition fee of 0.5% of the gross purchase price of each acquired asset by NLS. Lex-Win Concord LLC. We and Winthrop, have a co-investment program, Lex-Win Concord, to acquire and originate loans secured, directly and indirectly, by real estate assets through Concord. Concord’s business has been to acquire and originate loan assets and loan securities collateralized by real estate assets including mortgage loans, subordinate interests in whole loans, mezzanine loans, preferred equity and commercial real estate securities including CMBS and CDOs. Concord sought to finance its loan assets and loan securities through various structures including repurchase facilities, credit lines, term loans and securitizations and, in this regard, Concord formed CDO-1, pursuant to which it financed approximately $464.7 million of its loan assets and loan securities. Concord has also sought additional capital through sales of preferred equity in Concord. Concord initially sought to produce a stable income stream from its investments in loan assets and loan securities by managing credit risk and interest rate risk. However, the disruption in the capital and credit markets increased margin calls on Concord’s repurchase agreements. Furthermore, the ability to issue CDOs and the availability of new financing has effectively been eliminated, making the execution of Concord’s strategy unfeasible at this time. Concord began experiencing declines in the fair value of its loan securities in the fourth quarter of 2007 consistent with liquidity concerns impacting the commercial bond and real estate markets and the overall economy. As a result Concord has recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2008 and 2009. In addition, we perform a comprehensive analysis of our investment in Lex-Win Concord on a quarterly basis to determine if the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. Primarily due to (1) the continued deterioration in the value of Concord’s loan and bond portfolio, (2) a margin call received by Concord and potential additional margin calls, (3) the preferred member’s failure to fund the requested Concord capital call, (4) an increase in Concord borrower defaults, (5) Concord’s debt covenant violations, and (6) the distressed sale of assets and potential sale of assets at distressed levels to satisfy margin calls and amendments to lender agreements, we determined during the first half of 2009 that our investment in Lex-Win Concord had suffered a significant decrease in value and that ultimately our investment should be valued at zero. As a result, we recorded aggregate $68.2 million other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2009. We have no obligation or intent to support Lex-Win Concord’s activities going forward and accordingly, we have suspended recognition of losses incurred at Lex-Win Concord. 49 Contractual Obligations The following summarizes our principal contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 ($000’s): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total Notes payable(1)(2)(3)(4) $ 139,486 $ 287,408 $ 307,627 $ 319,557 $ 260,435 $ 758,225 $ 2,072,738 Contract right payable 491 540 593 652 717 12,259 15,252 Purchase obligations (5) — 4,024 — — — — 4,024 Operating lease obligations(6) 3,523 3,195 1,664 1,480 1,074 4,544 15,480 $ 143,500 $ 295,167 $ 309,884 $ 321,689 $ 262,226 $ 775,028 $ 2,107,494 (1) We have $7.5 million in outstanding letters of credit. (2) Includes balloon payments. (3) Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we issued $115.0 million 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes. The notes mature on January 15, 2030 but may be redeemed by us after January 15, 2017 or by the holder on January 15, 2017, January 15, 2020 and January 15, 2025. We also retired $14.7 million, $78.4 million and $23.0 million of debt which would have matured in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, using net proceeds from the offering and due to the assumption of mortgage debt in connection with two property sales. (4) 2012 and 2013 amounts are shown net of $1,941 and $3,170 in discounts, respectively. (5) Represents the December 31, 2009 remaining forward purchase equity commitment which must be settled by October 2011. (6) Includes ground lease payments and office rent. Amounts disclosed do not include rents that adjust to fair market value. In addition certain ground lease payments due under bond leases allow for a right of offset between the lease obligation and the debt service and accordingly are not included. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates primarily to our variable rate and fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our consolidated variable rate indebtedness was approximately $171.3 million and $199.3 million, respectively, which represented 8.3% and 8.4% of total long-term indebtedness, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, our variable rate indebtedness had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively. Had the weighted-average interest rate been 100 basis points higher, our interest expense for 2009 and 2008 would have been increased by approximately $2.0 million in each year. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our consolidated fixed rate debt, including discontinued operations, was approximately $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion respectively, which represented 91.7% and 91.6%, respectively, of total long-term indebtedness. For certain of our financial instruments, fair values are not readily available since there are no active trading markets as characterized by current exchanges between willing parties. Accordingly, we derive or estimate fair values using various valuation techniques, such as computing the present value of estimated future cash flows using discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. However, the determination of estimated cash flows may be subjective and imprecise. Changes in assumptions or estimation methodologies can have a material effect on these estimated fair values. The following fair values were determined using the interest rates that we believe our outstanding fixed rate debt would warrant as of December 31, 2009 and are indicative of the interest rate environment as of December 31, 2009, and do not take into consideration the effects of subsequent interest rate fluctuations. Accordingly, we estimate that the fair value of our fixed rate debt is $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. Our interest rate risk objectives are to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements. We may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps or caps to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the interest rate on a portion of our variable rate debt. Currently, we have one interest rate swap agreement. 50 MANAGEMENT’S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance that financial statements are fairly presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, management used as guidance the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon the assessment performed, management believes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as of December 31, 2009. Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and the members of our Board of Trustees; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. KPMG LLP has issued a report which is included on page 54 of this Annual Report. 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES INDEX Page Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 53 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 55 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 56 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 57 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 58 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 61 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 62 Financial Statement Schedule Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 92 52 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Trustees and Shareholders Lexington Realty Trust: We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Lexington Realty Trust and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as listed in the accompanying index. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the 2008 financial statements of Lex-Win Concord LLC (“Concord”), a 50 percent owned investee company. The Company’s investment in Concord at December 31, 2008 was $109.6 million, and its equity in losses of Concord and other comprehensive loss attributable to Concord were $30.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively, for the year then ended. The financial statements of Concord were audited by other auditors whose report was furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Concord for 2008, is based solely on the report of the other auditors. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Lexington Realty Trust and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. (signed) KPMG LLP New York, New York March 1, 2010 53 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Trustees and Shareholders Lexington Realty Trust: We have audited Lexington Realty Trust’s (the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management’s annual report on internal controls over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and trustees of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as listed in the accompanying index, and our report dated March 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. (signed) KPMG LLP New York, New York March 1, 2010 54 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Balance Sheets ($000 except per share amounts) As of December 31, 2009 2008 ASSETS Real estate, at cost: Buildings and building improvements $ 2,955,583 $ 3,106,784 Land and land estates 576,574 617,762 Land improvements 797 797 Fixtures and equipment 7,525 8,089 Construction in progress 12,327 22,756 3,552,806 3,756,188 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization 537,406 461,661 3,015,400 3,294,527 Properties held for sale — discontinued operations — 8,150 Intangible assets (net of accumulated amortization of $341,615 in 2009 and $283,926 in 2008) 267,161 343,192 Cash and cash equivalents 53,865 67,798 Restricted cash 21,519 31,369 Investment in and advances to non-consolidated entities 55,985 179,133 Deferred expenses (net of accumulated amortization of $16,970 in 2009 and $13,894 in 2008) 38,245 35,741 Notes receivable, net 60,567 68,812 Rent receivable — current 11,463 19,829 Rent receivable — deferred 12,529 16,499 Other assets 43,111 40,675 Total assets $ 3,579,845 $ 4,105,725 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities: Mortgages and notes payable $ 1,857,909 $ 2,033,854 Exchangeable notes payable 85,709 204,074 Trust preferred securities 129,120 129,120 Contract right payable 15,252 14,776 Dividends payable 18,412 24,681 Liabilities — discontinued operations — 6,142 Accounts payable and other liabilities 43,629 33,814 Accrued interest payable 11,068 16,345 Deferred revenue – below market leases (net of accretion of $39,946 in 2009 and $36,474 in 2008) 107,535 121,722 Prepaid rent 13,975 20,126 2,282,609 2,604,654 Commitments and contingencies (Notes 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 ,17, 19 and 24) Equity: Preferred shares, par value $0.0001 per share; authorized 100,000,000 shares; Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred, liquidation preference, $79,000; 3,160,000 shares issued and outstanding 76,315 76,315 Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred, liquidation preference $104,760 and $129,915; 2,095,200 and 2,598,300 shares issued and outstanding in 2009 and 2008, respectively 101,778 126,217 Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred, liquidation preference $155,000; 6,200,000 shares issued and outstanding 149,774 149,774 Common shares, par value $0.0001 per share, authorized 400,000,000 shares, 121,943,258 and 100,300,238 shares issued and outstanding in 2009 and 2008, respectively 12 10 Additional paid-in-capital 1,750,979 1,638,540 Accumulated distributions in excess of net income (870,862 ) (569,131 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 673 (15,650 ) Total shareholders’ equity 1,208,669 1,406,075 Noncontrolling interests 88,567 94,996 Total equity 1,297,236 1,501,071 Total liabilities and equity $ 3,579,845 $ 4,105,725 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 55 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Operations ($000 except per share amounts) Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Gross revenues: Rental $ 334,224 $ 376,760 $ 357,558 Advisory and incentive fees 1,822 1,432 13,567 Tenant reimbursements 40,575 39,957 30,051 Total gross revenues 376,621 418,149 401,176 Expense applicable to revenues: Depreciation and amortization (174,119 ) (228,542 ) (218,047 ) Property operating (83,343 ) (75,182 ) (53,578 ) General and administrative (23,586 ) (30,497 ) (39,200 ) Non-operating income 8,117 24,407 11,445 Interest and amortization expense (131,629 ) (152,904 ) (160,647 ) Debt satisfaction gains (charges), net 17,023 59,710 (1,209 ) Change in value of forward equity commitment 7,182 (2,128 ) — Impairment charges and loan losses (27,350 ) — — Gains on sale - affiliates — 31,806 17,864 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes, equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated entities and discontinued operations (31,084 ) 44,819 (42,196 ) Provision for income taxes (2,378 ) (2,985 ) (3,287 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated entities (123,176 ) (43,305 ) 46,467 Income (loss) from continuing operations (156,638 ) (1,471 ) 984 Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations (1,345 ) (1,162 ) 26,601 Provision for income taxes (78 ) (529 ) (3,414 ) Debt satisfaction gains (charges), net 11,471 3,062 (7,950 ) Gains on sales of properties 9,134 13,151 92,878 Impairment charges (73,816 ) (16,519 ) (17,170 ) Total discontinued operations (54,634 ) (1,997 ) 90,945 Net income (loss) (211,272 ) (3,468 ) 91,929 Less net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,120 6,222 (16,680 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Lexington Realty Trust (210,152 ) 2,754 75,249 Dividends attributable to preferred shares — Series B (6,360 ) (6,360 ) (6,360 ) Dividends attributable to preferred shares — Series C (7,218 ) (8,852 ) (10,075 ) Dividends attributable to preferred shares — Series D (11,703 ) (11,703 ) (10,298 ) Redemption discount – Series C — 5,678 — Conversion dividend – Series C (6,994 ) — — Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (242,427 ) $ (18,483 ) $ 48,516 Income (loss) per common share — basic: Loss from continuing operations $ (1.75 ) $ (0.24 ) $ (0.37 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.47 ) (0.04 ) 1.10 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (2.22 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.73 Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic 109,280,955 67,872,590 64,910,123 Income (loss) per common share — diluted: Loss from continuing operations $ (1.75 ) $ (0.24 ) $ (0.37 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.47 ) (0.04 ) 1.10 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (2.22 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.73 Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted 109,280,955 67,872,590 64,910,123 Amounts attributable to common shareholders: Loss from continuing operations $ (190,635 ) $ (15,776 ) $ (22,708 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (51,792 ) (2,707 ) 71,224 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (242,427 ) $ (18,483 ) $ 48,516 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 56 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) ($000) Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net income (loss) $ (211,272 ) $ (3,468 ) $ 91,929 Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in unrealized gain (loss) on marketable equity securities, net — 38 (827 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency translation (19 ) (96 ) 371 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on investments in non-consolidated entities, net 26,174 (6,137 ) (8,390 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on interest rate swap, net 1,815 (1,882 ) — Other comprehensive income (loss) 27,970 (8,077 ) (8,846 ) Comprehensive income (loss) (183,302 ) (11,545 ) 83,083 Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,120 6,446 (11,885 ) Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Lexington Realty Trust $ (182,182 ) $ (5,099 ) $ 71,198 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 57 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ($000 except share amounts) Lexington Realty Trust Shareholders Total Number of Preferred Shares Preferred Shares Number of Common Shares Common Shares Additional Paid-in- Capital Accumulated Distributions in Excess of Net Income Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Non- controlling Interests Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 2,025,185 6,260,001 $ 226,904 69,051,781 $ 7 $ 1,188,900 $ (294,640 ) $ 1,273 $ 902,741 Redemption of OP Units — — — 1,283,629 — 25,223 — — (25,223 ) Repurchase of units/noncontrolling interests (23,432 ) — — — — — — — (23,432 ) Sale of noncontrolling interest (11,832 ) — — — — — — — (11,832 ) Finalization of purchase price allocation – Newkirk merger 9,683 — — — — — — — 9,683 Issuance of Exchangeable Notes 23,132 — — — — 23,132 — — — Issuance of common shares, net 9,432 — — 324,740 — 9,331 101 — — Issuance of preferred shares 149,774 6,200,000 149,774 — — — — — — Repurchase of common shares (190,123 ) — — (9,595,816 ) (1 ) (190,122 ) — — — Dividends/distributions (335,337 ) — — — — — (250,479 ) — (84,858 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) 91,929 — — — — — 75,249 — 16,680 Other comprehensive loss: Change in unrealized gain (loss) on marketable equity securities, net (827 ) — — — — — — (896 ) 69 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 371 — — — — — — 371 — Change in unrealized gain (loss) from non-consolidated entities, net (8,390 ) — — — — — — (3,526 ) (4,864 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (8,846 ) Comprehensive income (loss) 83,083 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,739,565 12,460,001 $ 376,678 61,064,334 $ 6 $ 1,056,464 $ (469,769 ) $ (2,778 ) $ 778,964 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 58 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ($000 except share amounts) Lexington Realty Trust Shareholders Total Number of Preferred Shares Preferred Shares Number of Common Shares Common Shares Additional Paid-in- Capital Accumulated Distributions in Excess of Net Income Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Non- controlling Interests Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,739,565 12,460,001 $ 376,678 61,064,334 $ 6 $ 1,056,464 $ (469,769 ) $ (2,778 ) $ 778,964 Repurchase of exchangeable note equity component (2,839 ) — — — — (2,839 ) — — — Contributions from noncontrolling interests 1,957 — — — — — — — 1,957 Redemption of OP Units — — — 34,377,989 3 516,537 — — (516,540 ) Repurchase of OP Units (475 ) — — — — 156 — — (631 ) Purchase of noncontrolling interest (5,311 ) — — — — — — — (5,311 ) Transfer of noncontrolling interest (3,086 ) — — — — — — — (3,086 ) Issuance of common shares, net 85,101 — 6,037,715 1 85,075 25 — — Repurchase of common shares (16,853 ) — — (1,179,800 ) — (16,853 ) — — — Repurchase of preferred shares (24,372 ) (501,700 ) (24,372 ) — — — — — — Redemption discount – Series C 5,678 — — — — — 5,678 — — Retirement of special voting preferred — (1 ) — — — — — — — Dividends/distributions (266,749 ) — — — — — (107,819 ) — (158,930 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) (3,468 ) — — — — — 2,754 — (6,222 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in unrealized gain (loss) on marketable equity securities, net 38 — — — — — — 107 (69 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency translation (96 ) — — — — — — (96 ) — Change in unrealized gain (loss) on interest rate swap, net (1,882 ) — — — — — — (2,064 ) 182 Change in unrealized gain (loss) from non-consolidated entities, net (6,137 ) — — — — — — (5,800 ) (337 ) Transfer of noncontrolling interests share — — — — — — — (5,019 ) 5,019 Other comprehensive income (loss) (8,077 ) Comprehensive income (loss) (11,545 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 1,501,071 11,958,300 $ 352,306 100,300,238 $ 10 $ 1,638,540 $ (569,131 ) $ (15,650 ) $ 94,996 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 59 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ($000 except share amounts) Lexington Realty Trust Shareholders Total Number of Preferred Shares Preferred Shares Number of Common Shares Common Shares Additional Paid-in- Capital Accumulated Distributions in Excess of Net Income Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Non- controlling Interests Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 1,501,071 11,958,300 $ 352,306 100,300,238 $ 10 $ 1,638,540 $ (569,131 ) $ (15,650 ) $ 94,996 Cumulative effect, change in accounting principal from non-consolidated entity — — — — — — 11,647 (11,647 ) — Redemption of OP units — — — 572,213 — 3,580 — — (3,580 ) Contributions from noncontrolling interests 1,756 — — — — — — — 1,756 Conversion – Series C — (503,100 ) (24,439 ) 2,955,368 — 31,433 (6,994 ) — — Issuance of common shares, net 24,569 — — 4,811,241 1 24,568 — — — Dividends/distributions (46,858 ) — — 13,304,198 1 52,858 (96,232 ) — (3,485 ) Comprehensive Income (loss): Net loss (211,272 ) — — — — — (210,152 ) — (1,120 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency translation (19 ) — — — — — — (19 ) — Change in unrealized gain (loss) on interest rate swap, net 1,815 — — — — — — 1,815 — Change in unrealized gain (loss) from non-consolidated entity, net 26,174 — — — — — — 26,174 — Other comprehensive income 27,970 Comprehensive loss (183,302 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 1,297,236 11,455,200 $ 327,867 121,943,258 $ 12 $ 1,750,979 $ (870,862 ) $ 673 $ 88,567 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ($000 except per share amounts) Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) $ (211,272 ) $ (3,468 ) $ 91,929 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities, net of effects from acquisitions: Depreciation and amortization 185,208 252,389 257,663 Gains on sales of properties (9,134 ) (44,957 ) (110,742 ) Debt satisfaction charges (gains), net (29,872 ) (62,889 ) 2,250 Impairment charges and loan losses 101,166 16,519 17,170 Straight-line rents (240 ) 2,114 16,151 Other non-cash (income) charges, net (7,192 ) 5,944 18,376 Equity in (earnings) losses of non-consolidated entities 123,176 43,305 (46,474 ) Distributions of accumulated earnings from non-consolidated entities 4,707 1,697 7,930 Deferred taxes, net 196 1,313 2,358 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities 1,175 (9,129 ) 4,999 Change in rent receivable and prepaid rent, net 1,600 22,829 12,378 (Decrease) increase in accrued interest payable (4,605 ) (6,026 ) 15,193 Other adjustments, net 4,394 10,560 (1,530 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 159,307 230,201 287,651 Cash flows from investing activities: Net proceeds from sales/transfers of properties 113,139 238,600 423,634 Net proceeds from sales of properties-affiliates — 95,576 126,628 Purchase of noncontrolling interests — (5,311 ) — Investments in real estate including intangible assets and capital leases (45,122 ) (94,610 ) (163,746 ) Investments in and advances to non-consolidated entities, net 4,765 (18,388 ) (97,942 ) Acquisition of interest in certain non-consolidated entities — — (366,614 ) Acquisition of additional interest in LSAC — — (24,199 ) Principal payments received on notes and loans receivable 12,886 1,468 8,499 Real estate deposits — 223 1,756 Investment in notes receivable — (1,000 ) — Proceeds from the sale of marketable equity and debt securities 9,451 2,506 29,462 Investment in marketable equity securities — — (723 ) Distribution from non-consolidated entities in excess of accumulated earnings 16,241 26,355 9,457 Increase in deferred leasing costs (8,641 ) (11,988 ) (5,713 ) Change in escrow deposits and restricted cash 9,248 (3,303 ) 28,011 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 111,967 230,128 (31,490 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Proceeds of mortgages and notes payable 11,540 13,700 246,965 Change in revolving credit facility borrowing, net (18,000 ) 25,000 (65,194 ) Dividends to common and preferred shareholders (49,642 ) (241,306 ) (137,259 ) Dividend reinvestment plan proceeds — — 5,652 Repurchase of exchangeable notes (101,006 ) (169,479 ) — Repurchase of trust preferred securities — (44,561 ) — Principal payments on debt, excluding normal amortization (264,399 ) (242,679 ) (665,124 ) Principal amortization payments (39,052 ) (64,552 ) (73,351 ) Proceeds from term loan 165,000 70,000 225,000 Proceeds from trust preferred securities — — 200,000 Proceeds from exchangeable notes — — 450,000 Issuance of common/preferred shares, net 20,026 47,014 149,898 Repurchase of common and preferred shares — (24,374 ) (190,123 ) Contributions from noncontrolling interests 1,756 1,957 — Cash distributions to noncontrolling interests (3,485 ) (158,930 ) (84,858 ) Increase in deferred financing costs (5,317 ) (2,712 ) (18,707 ) Swap termination costs (366 ) (415 ) — Payments on forward equity commitment, net (2,262 ) (12,825 ) — Purchases of partnership units — (475 ) (3,926 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (285,207 ) (804,637 ) 38,973 Cash acquired in co-investment program acquisition — — 20,867 Cash associated with sale of interest in entity — — (1,442 ) Change in cash and cash equivalents (13,933 ) (344,308 ) 314,559 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 67,798 412,106 97,547 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 53,865 $ 67,798 $ 412,106 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 61 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (1) The Company Lexington Realty Trust (the “Company”) is a self-managed and self-administered Maryland statutory real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that acquires, owns, and manages a geographically diversified portfolio of predominately net-leased office, industrial and retail properties. The Company also provides investment advisory and asset management services to investors in the net-lease area. As of December 31, 2009, the Company owned or had interests in approximately 210 consolidated properties located in 40 states and the Netherlands. The real properties owned by the Company are generally subject to net leases or similar leases where the tenant pays all or substantially all of the cost and/or cost increases for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and ordinary maintenance of the property. However, certain leases provide that the Company is responsible for certain operating expenses. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had ownership interests in approximately 225 consolidated properties in 41 states and the Netherlands. The Company believes it has qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Accordingly, the Company will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its shareholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code. The Company is permitted to participate in certain activities from which it was previously precluded in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) under the Code. As such, the TRS are subject to federal income taxes on the income from these activities. The Company conducts its operations either directly or indirectly through operating partnerships in which the Company is the sole unit holder of the general partner and the sole unit holder of the limited partner that holds a majority of the limited partner interests (“OP units”) or through Lexington Realty Advisors, Inc. (“LRA”), a wholly-owned TRS. On December 31, 2008, The Lexington Master Limited Partnership ("MLP"), a former operating partnership, merged with and into the Company and the MLP ceased to exist for financial reporting purposes. As of December 31, 2009, the Company controlled three operating partnerships: (1) Lepercq Corporate Income Fund L.P. (“LCIF”), (2) Lepercq Corporate Income Fund II L.P. (“LCIF II”), and (3) Net 3 Acquisition L.P. (“Net 3”). (2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("Codification") was released in June 2009. The Codification became the exclusive authoritative reference for non-governmental U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for use in financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009, except for SEC rules and interpretive releases, which are also authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. The FASB divided non-governmental GAAP into the authoritative Codification and guidance that is nonauthoritative. The Codification supersedes all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other non-grandfathered, non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification has become nonauthoritative. All references to accounting guidance in this report have been modified to conform to the Codification. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation. The Company's consolidated financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. The financial statements reflect the accounts of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including LCIF, LCIF II, Net 3, LRA and Six Penn Center L.P. Lexington Contributions, Inc. ("LCI") and Lexington Strategic Asset Corp. (“LSAC”), each a former majority-owned TRS and the MLP, were merged with and into the Company as of March 25, 2008, June 30, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively, are included in the consolidated financial statements through their applicable merger dates. The Company consolidates its wholly owned subsidiaries, partnerships and joint ventures which it controls through (i) voting rights or similar rights or (ii) by means other than voting rights if the Company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). Entities which the Company does not control and entities which are VIE's in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary are accounted for by the equity method. Earnings Per Share. Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) reduced by preferred dividends and amounts allocated to unvested share-based payment awards, if applicable, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share amounts are similarly computed but include the effect, when dilutive, of in-the-money common share options, OP units, put options of certain partners’ interests in non-consolidated entities and convertible securities. 62 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Use of Estimates. Management has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses to prepare these consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Management adjusts such estimates when facts and circumstances dictate. The most significant estimates made include the recoverability of accounts receivable, allocation of property purchase price to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the determination if certain entities should be consolidated, classification of noncontrolling interests, the determination of impairment of long-lived assets, notes receivable and equity method investments, valuation and impairment of assets held by equity method investees, valuation of derivative financial instruments, and the useful lives of long-lived assets. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Purchase Accounting and Acquisition of Real Estate. The fair value of the real estate acquired, which includes the impact of fair value adjustments for assumed mortgage debt related to property acquisitions, is allocated to the acquired tangible assets, consisting of land, building and improvements, and identified intangible assets and liabilities, consisting of the value of above-market and below-market leases, other value of in-place leases and value of tenant relationships, based in each case on their fair values. Beginning in 2009, acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and are included in property operating expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Also, noncontrolling interests acquired are recorded at estimated fair market value. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property (which includes land, building and improvements and fixtures and equipment) is determined by valuing the property as if it were vacant, and the “as-if-vacant” value is then allocated to land, building and improvements based on management’s determination of relative fair values of these assets. Factors considered by management in performing these analyses include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, management includes real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up periods based on current market demand. Management also estimates costs to execute similar leases including leasing commissions. In allocating the fair value of the identified intangible assets and liabilities of an acquired property, above-market and below-market lease values are recorded based on the difference between the current in-place lease rent and management’s estimate of current market rents. Below-market lease intangibles are recorded as part of deferred revenue and amortized into rental revenue over the non-cancelable periods and bargain renewal periods of the respective leases. Above-market leases are recorded as part of intangible assets and amortized as a direct charge against rental revenue over the non-cancelable portion of the respective leases. The aggregate value of other acquired intangible assets, consisting of in-place leases and tenant relationship values, is measured by the excess of (1) the purchase price paid for a property over (2) the estimated fair value of the property as if vacant, determined as set forth above. This aggregate value is allocated between in-place lease values and tenant relationship values based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease. The value of in-place leases are amortized to expense over the remaining non-cancelable periods and any bargain renewal periods of the respective leases. The value of tenant relationships are amortized to expense over the applicable lease term plus expected renewal periods. Depreciation is determined by the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic useful lives of the properties. The Company generally depreciates buildings and building improvements over periods ranging from 8 to 40 years, land improvements from 15 to 20 years, and fixtures and equipment from 2 to 16 years. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic and rational basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the use benefit is derived from the leased property. Renewal options in leases with rental terms that are lower than those in the primary term are excluded from the calculation of straight line rent if the renewals are not reasonably assured. In those instances in which the Company funds tenant improvements and the improvements are deemed to be owned by the Company, revenue recognition will commence when the improvements are substantially completed and possession or control of the space is turned over to the tenant. When the Company determines that the tenant allowances are lease incentives, the Company commences revenue recognition when possession or control of the space is turned over to the tenant for tenant work to begin. The lease incentive is recorded as a deferred expense and amortized as a reduction of revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease term. The Company recognizes lease termination payments as a component of rental revenue in the period received, provided that there are no further obligations under the lease. All above-market lease assets, below-market lease liabilities and deferred rent assets or liabilities for terminated leases are charged against or credited to rental revenue in the period the lease is terminated. All other capitalized lease costs and lease intangibles are accelerated via amortization expense to the date of termination. 63 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Gains on sales of real estate are recognized based upon the specific timing of the sale as measured against various criteria related to the terms of the transactions and any continuing involvement associated with the properties. If the sales criteria are not met, the gain is deferred and the finance, installment or cost recovery method, as appropriate, is applied until the sales criteria are met. To the extent the Company sells a property and retains a partial ownership interest in the property, the Company recognizes gain to the extent of the third party ownership interest. Accounts Receivable. The Company continuously monitors collections from its tenants and would make a provision for estimated losses based upon historical experience and any specific tenant collection issues that the Company has identified. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was not significant. Fair Value Measurements. The Company follows the guidance in FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("Topic 820") to determine the fair value of financial and non-financial instruments. Topic 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of the guidance were effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, except for those relating to nonfinancial assets and liabilities, which were deferred for one additional year, and a scope exception for purposes of fair value measurements affecting lease classification or measurement. Topic 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three levels: Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for assets or liabilities; Level 2 – observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted in active markets, but corroborated by market data; and Level 3 – unobservable inputs that are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. In determining fair value, the Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible, as well as considering counterparty credit risk, where applicable, in the Company’s assessment of fair value. Impairment of Real Estate. The Company evaluates the carrying value of all tangible and intangible real estate assets for possible impairment when an event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates its carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation includes estimating and reviewing anticipated future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. If such cash flows are less than the asset’s carrying value, an impairment charge is recognized to the extent by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. Estimating future cash flows is highly subjective and such estimates could differ materially from actual results. Investments in Non-Consolidated Entities. The Company accounts for its investments in 50% or less owned entities under the equity method, unless consolidation is required or if the Company’s investment in the entity is less than 3% and the Company has no influence over the control of the entity then the entity is accounted for under the cost method. Impairment of Equity Method Investments. On a quarterly basis, the Company assesses whether there are indicators that the value of its equity method investments may be impaired. An impairment charge is recognized only if the Company determines that a decline in the value of the investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary. The assessment of impairment is highly subjective and involves the application of significant assumptions and judgments about the Company’s intent and ability to recover its investment given the nature and operations of the underlying investment, including the level of the Company’s involvement therein, among other factors. To the extent an impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. Loans Receivable. Loans held for investment are intended to be held to maturity and, accordingly, are carried at cost, net of unamortized loan origination costs, loan purchase discounts, and net of an allowance for loan losses when such loan is deemed to be impaired. Loan origination costs and fees and loan purchase discounts are amortized over the term of the loan. The Company considers a loan impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts due for both principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Significant judgments are required in determining whether impairment has occurred. The Company performs an impairment analysis by comparing either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate or the loan’s observable current market price to the net carrying value of the loan, which may result in an allowance and corresponding charge to loan loss reserves. Interest on impaired loans is recognized on a cash basis. 64 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Common Shareholder Dividends. For three of its quarterly common share dividends declared during 2009, the Company relied upon Internal Revenue Service Revenue Procedure 2008-68 (“IRS Rev. Proc. 2008-68”). IRS Rev. Proc. 2008-68, through a date certain, allows REITs to offer shareholders elective stock dividends, which are dividends paid in a mixture of stock and cash, of which at least 10% must be paid in cash. The stock portion of the dividend was accounted for as a stock issuance upon distribution and earnings per share was adjusted prospectively. Properties Held For Sale. Assets and liabilities of properties that meet various held for sale criteria, including whether it is probable that a sale will occur within 12 months, are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with assets and liabilities being separately stated. The operating results of these properties are reflected as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Properties classified as held for sale are carried at the lower of net carrying value or estimated fair value less costs to sell. Properties that do not meet the held for sale criteria are accounted for as operating properties. Deferred Expenses. Deferred expenses consist primarily of debt and leasing costs. Debt costs are amortized using the straight-line method, which approximates the interest method, over the terms of the debt instruments and leasing costs are amortized over the term of the related lease. Derivative Financial Instruments. The Company accounts for its interest rate swap agreements in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815 Derivatives and Hedging ("Topic 815"). In accordance with Topic 815, such agreements are carried on the balance sheet at their fair value, as an asset if their fair value is positive or as a liability, if their fair value is negative. If the interest rate swap is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the swap’s change in fair value is reported as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognized in earnings as an increase or decrease to interest expense. Upon entering into hedging transactions, the Company documents the relationship between the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged item. The Company also documents its risk-management policies, including objectives and strategies, as they relate to its hedging activities. The Company assesses, both at inception of a hedge and on an on-going basis, whether or not the hedge is highly effective. The Company will discontinue hedge accounting on a prospective basis with changes in the estimated fair value reflected in earnings when: (1) it is determined that the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting cash flows of a hedged item (including forecasted transactions); (2) it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (3) it is determined that designating the derivative as an interest rate swap is no longer appropriate. The Company may utilize interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage interest rate risk and does not anticipate entering into derivative transactions for speculative trading purposes. Stock Compensation. The Company maintains an equity participation plan. Options granted under the plan in 2008 vest upon attainment of certain market performance measures and expire ten years from the date of grant. Non-vested share grants generally vest either based upon (i) time, (ii) performance and/or (iii) market conditions. Prior to January 1, 2003, the Company accounted for the plan under the intrinsic value-based method of accounting. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the prospective method for all employee awards granted, modified or settled after January 1, 2003. All share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on their fair values. Tax Status. The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes it is operating so as to qualify, as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its shareholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. The Company is permitted to participate in certain activities from which it was previously precluded in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries under the Code. LRA is, and LCI and LSAC were, taxable REIT subsidiaries. As such, the Company is subject to federal and state income taxes on the income from these activities. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. 65 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) A summary of the average taxable nature of the Company’s common dividends for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Total dividends per share $ 0.72000 $ 2.25408 (1) $ 2.93342 (1)(2) Ordinary income 53.80 % 62.24 % 42.36 % 15% rate — qualifying dividend 0.61 % 0.66 % 2.50 % 15% rate gain — 14.12 % 35.62 % 25% rate gain — 9.56 % 19.52 % Return of capital 45.59 % 13.42 % — 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % (1) Of the total dividend paid in January 2008, $1.21092 is allocated to 2007 and $1.26408 is allocated to 2008. (2) Includes the special dividend of $0.2325 paid in January 2007 and a portion of the special dividend of $2.10 paid in January 2008. A summary of the average taxable nature of the Company’s dividend on Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Total dividends per share $ 2.0125 $ 2.0125 $ 2.0125 Ordinary income 98.87 % 71.90 % 42.36 % 15% rate — qualifying dividend 1.13 % 0.76 % 2.50 % 15% rate gain — 16.30 % 35.62 % 25% rate gain — 11.04 % 19.52 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % A summary of the average taxable nature of the Company’s dividend on Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Total dividends per share $ 3.25 $ 7.63976 (1) $ 3.25 Ordinary income 98.87 % 66.35 % 42.36 % 15% rate — qualifying dividend 1.13 % 0.70 % 2.50 % 15% rate gain — 15.05 % 35.62 % 25% rate gain — 10.19 % 19.52 % Return of capital — 7.71 % — 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % (1) Includes deemed distribution of $4.38976 due to an adjustment to the conversion rate. A summary of the average taxable nature of the Company’s dividend on Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred shares for the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Total dividends per share $ 1.8875 $ 1.415625 (1) $ 1.662049 Ordinary income 98.87 % 71.90 % 42.36 % 15% rate — qualifying dividend 1.13 % 0.76 % 2.50 % 15% rate gain — 16.30 % 35.62 % 25% rate gain — 11.04 % 19.52 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % (1) Dividend paid in January 2008 was allocated to 2007. 66 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Cash and Cash Equivalents. The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Restricted Cash. Restricted cash is comprised primarily of cash balances held in escrow with lenders. Foreign Currency. The Company has determined that the functional currency of its foreign operation is the respective local currency. As such, assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign operation is translated using the period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated using the exchange rate as determined throughout the period. Unrealized gains or losses resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and as a separate component of the Company’s shareholders’ equity. Environmental Matters. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, an owner of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, in or under such property as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. These liabilities may include government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances. Although the Company’s tenants are primarily responsible for any environmental damage and claims related to the leased premises, in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of the tenant of such premises to satisfy any obligations with respect to such environmental liability, the Company may be required to satisfy any such obligations, should they exist. In addition, the Company as the owner of such properties may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims irrespective of the provisions of any lease. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company was not aware of any environmental matter relating to any of its assets that would have a material impact on the financial statements. Segment Reporting. The Company operates generally in one industry segment, investment in net-leased real properties. Reclassifications. Certain amounts included in prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation, including certain statement of operations captions including activities for properties sold during 2009, which are presented as discontinued operations. Newly Adopted Accounting Guidance. In August 2009, the FASB amended guidance on fair value measurements which clarifies how entities should estimate the fair value of liabilities. The guidance was issued to improve the consistency of how entities apply the fair value guidance to liabilities and provides acceptable measurement techniques in circumstances when quoted market prices in an active market for an identical liability are not available. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after August 27, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows and was adopted by the Company effective October 1, 2009. Recently Issued Accounting Guidance. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs. The guidance requires reporting entities to evaluate former qualified special purpose entities for consolidation, changes the approach to determining a VIE's primary beneficiary from a quantitative assessment to a qualitative assessment designed to identify a controlling financial interest, and increases the frequency of required reassessments to determine whether a company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. It also clarifies, but does not significantly change, the characteristics that identify a VIE. The guidance is effective for periods beginning after November 15, 2009. Management has determined that the guidance will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On February 24, 2010, the FASB issued new guidance that updates guidance issued in May 2009 which establishes principles and requirements for subsequent events. This guidance was effective immediately and applies to the accounting for and disclosure of subsequent events not addressed in other applicable GAAP. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 67 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (3) Earnings Per Share The Company’s unvested share-based payment awards are considered participating securities and as such the Company is required to use the two-class method for the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share. Under the two-class computation method net losses are not allocated to participating securities unless the holder of the security has a contractual obligation to share in the losses, accordingly the unvested share-based payment awards are not allocated losses for the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The following is a reconciliation of numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009: 2009 2008 2007 BASIC Loss from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders $ (190,635 ) $ (15,776 ) $ (22,708 ) Less: Unvested common share dividends (449 ) (491 ) (1,362 ) Loss attributable to common shareholders from continuing operations for earnings per share (191,084 ) (16,267 ) (24,070 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders (51,792 ) (2,707 ) 71,224 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders for earnings per share $ (242,876 ) $ (18,974 ) $ 47,154 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding - basic 109,280,955 67,872,590 64,910,123 Income (loss) per common share — basic: Loss from continuing operations $ (1.75 ) $ (0.24 ) $ (0.37 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.47 ) (0.04 ) 1.10 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (2.22 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.73 DILUTED Loss attributable to common shareholders from continuing operations for earnings per share — basic $ (191,084 ) $ (16,267 ) $ (24,070 ) Incremental loss attributable to assumed conversion of dilutive securities — — — Loss attributable to common shareholders from continuing operations for earnings per share (191,084 ) (16,267 ) (24,070 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders (51,792 ) (2,707 ) 71,224 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders for earnings per share - diluted $ (242,876 ) $ (18,974 ) $ 47,154 Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 109,280,955 67,872,590 64,910,123 Add — incremental shares representing: Shares issuable upon conversion of dilutive securities — — — Weighted average number of common shares – diluted 109,280,955 67,872,590 64,910,123 Income (loss) per common share — diluted: Loss from continuing operations $ (1.75 ) $ (0.24 ) $ (0.37 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.47 ) (0.04 ) 1.10 Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders $ (2.22 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.73 During 2009, 503,100 shares of Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares ("Series C Preferred") were converted into 2,955,368 common shares. The difference between the fair value of the securities transferred in excess of the fair value of the securities issuable pursuant to the original conversion terms of $6,994 constitutes a deemed dividend, even though the conversion was for equivalent fair values, and is dilutive to common shareholders and accordingly, it has been deducted from net income (loss) to arrive at net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders for 2009. During 2008, the Company redeemed 501,700 shares of Series C Preferred at a $5,678 discount to their historical cost basis. This discount constitutes a deemed negative dividend, offsetting other dividends, and is accretive to the common shareholders and, accordingly, it has been added to net income (loss) to arrive at net income (loss) allocable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008. All incremental shares are considered anti-dilutive for periods that have a loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders. 68 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (4) Investments in Real Estate and Intangible Assets During 2009, the Company acquired the remainder interests in land in Long Beach, California in connection with a tenant's lease surrender obligations for an estimated fair value of approximately $2,500 and recorded it as non-operating income, of which $1,125 was attributable to a noncontrolling interest in the property. During 2008, the Company made acquisitions, totaling $57,488. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the components of intangible assets, are as follows: 2009 2008 Lease origination costs $ 349,864 $ 362,712 Tenant relationship values 160,006 165,009 Above-market leases 98,906 99,397 $ 608,776 $ 627,118 The estimated amortization of the above intangibles for the next five years is $53,180 in 2010, $48,211 in 2011, $37,892 in 2012, $26,673 in 2013 and $21,500 in 2014. Below-market leases, net of accretion, which are included in deferred revenue, are $106,291 and $121,284, respectively in 2009 and 2008. The estimated accretion for the next five years is $8,456 in 2010, $8,319 in 2011, $7,976 in 2012, $7,518 in 2013 and $6,359 in 2014. In addition, on December 31, 2009, the Company acquired an office building in Greenville, South Carolina for $10,500. The tenant has an option to purchase the property on December 31, 2014 at fair market value, but not less than $10,710 and not greater than $11,550. If the tenant does not exercise the purchase option, the Company has the right to require the tenant to purchase the property for $10,710. The Company has determined that the lease is a direct financing lease and has classified it in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. (5) Sales of Real Estate and Discontinued Operations The Company sold, to unrelated parties (1) 18 properties in 2009, three of which were transferred to lenders or disposed of through bankruptcy, (2) 41 properties in 2008, one of which was transferred to the lender, and (3) 53 properties in 2007, for aggregate net proceeds of $108,475, $238,600 and $423,634, respectively, which resulted in gains in 2009, 2008 and 2007 of $9,134, $13,151 and $92,878, respectively. These gains are included in discontinued operations. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had no properties and one property classified as held for sale, respectively. The following presents the operating results for the properties sold and held for sale during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Year Ending December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total gross revenues $ 12,685 $ 33,938 $ 84,185 Pre-tax income (loss), including gains on sales $ (54,556 ) $ (1,468 ) $ 94,359 In 2009, the Company received gross proceeds of $4,750 in a sale-leaseback transaction of land in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. The Company is leasing back the land for 30 years and has an option to purchase the land in June 2014 and June 2015. The Company has not recognized a gain on the transaction as the Company is considered to have continued involvement in the property due to the purchase option. During 2009, the Company conveyed three properties to lenders in full satisfaction of the related aggregate $38,022 non-recourse mortgage notes payable. During 2008, the Company conveyed one property to a lender in full satisfaction of the $6,516 non-recourse mortgage note payable. The Company recorded a gain on debt satisfaction of $3,990. 69 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) During 2007, the Company sold one property for a sale price of $35,700 and provided $27,700 in secured financing to the buyer at a rate of 6.45%. The note matures in 2015 when a balloon payment of $25,731 is due. The provision for income taxes included in discontinued operations in 2007 of $3,414 relates primarily to taxes incurred on the sale of properties by taxable REIT subsidiaries, including C-Corp built in gain taxes. The federal and state portion of the $3,414 is $2,731 and $683, respectively. The Company has not treated properties sold to Net Lease Strategic Assets Fund L.P. as discontinued operations as it has continuing involvement with such assets through its partnership interest. In addition, management will not consider assets being marketed for sale as discontinued operations until it is probable that a sale will take place within 12 months. (6) Impairments and Loan Losses The Company assesses on a regular basis whether there are any indicators that the value of Company assets have become impaired. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the Company reduces the asset’s carrying value to its estimated fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these assets by using several techniques such as income and market valuation which primarily rely on unobservable inputs, such as estimated capitalization rates, which are within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized $101,166, $16,519 and $17,170, respectively, of impairment charges and loan losses, including amounts in discontinued operations, relating to real estate assets and certain loan assets. · During 2009, three real estate assets with an aggregate carrying value of $59,974 were written down to their estimated aggregate fair value of $24,650 in anticipation of foreclosure by their respective mortgage lenders, resulting in an aggregate impairment charge of $35,324. · The Company recognized impairments of $38,493, $12,031 and $1,670 during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, on real estate assets that were disposed of below their carrying value. · During 2009, the Company recognized aggregate impairments of $25,773 on four properties acquired on December 31, 2006 in the merger with Newkirk Realty Trust (“Newkirk”), classified in continuing operations as a result of triggering events with respect to the properties. Three of these properties, with an aggregate carrying value of $11,512, were written down to their aggregate estimated fair value of zero, as the Company determined that it is unlikely that the Company will recover any of its investment. In addition, the Company adjusted the $51,267 carrying value of its consolidated variable interest property in San Francisco, California to its estimated fair value of $37,006 due to an anticipated restructuring of the property’s entity structure and debt. · During 2009, the Company agreed to the discounted payoff of two notes receivable with an aggregate carrying value of $4,950. The Company wrote the notes receivable down to the aggregate agreed-upon discounted payoff amount of $3,865, which approximated fair value and recognized a loan loss reserve of $1,085 during 2009. In addition, the Company sold investments in debt securities for $9,451 and realized a loss of $491. · During 2008, the Company conveyed one property to a lender and recognized an impairment loss of $4,488. · During 2007, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $5,500 on a vacant property and a $10,000 impairment loss on a property upon the tenant’s lease rejection. The Company also determined that two of its investments in non-consolidated entities incurred other-than-temporary impairments in 2009 and accordingly recognized $74,693 of impairment charges in equity in earnings (losses) from non-consolidated entities including other-than-temporary impairments of $68,213 on its investment in Lex-Win Concord LLC which reduced the carrying value of that investment to zero. In addition, in 2009 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $6,480 on its investment in an unconsolidated joint venture acquired in the merger with Newkirk due to the expiration of the net-lease on the hotel asset owned by the joint venture. The Company sold this investment for $60 in 2009. 70 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (7) Notes Receivable As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s notes receivable, including accrued interest, are comprised primarily of first and second mortgage loans on real estate aggregating $60,567 and $68,812, respectively, bearing interest, including imputed interest, at rates ranging from 4.6% to 16.0% and maturing at various dates between 2014 and 2022. (8) Fair Value Measurements The following table presents the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2009 and on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008, aggregated by the level in the fair value hierarchy within which those measurements fall: Balance Fair Value Measurements Using Year ended December 31, 2009 Total Gains Description December 31, 2009 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) (Losses) Forward purchase equity asset $ 20,141 $ — $ 20,141 $ — Interest rate swap liability $ (5,240 ) $ — $ (5,240 ) $ — Impaired real estate assets* $ 36,658 $ — $ — $ 36,658 $ (99,590 ) Investment in and advances to non-consolidated entities* $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (74,693 ) Impaired notes receivable* $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (1,576 ) *Represents a non-recurring measurement. See note 6 regarding impairments and loan losses Balance Fair Value Measurements Using Description December 31, 2008 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Forward purchase equity asset $ 10,698 $ — $ 10,698 $ — Interest rate swap liability $ (7,055 ) $ — $ (7,055 ) $ — 71 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The Company has estimated the fair value of its other financial instruments at amounts which are based upon interpretation of available market information and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow analysis). The table below sets forth the carrying amounts and fair values of the Company’s financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. As of December 31, 2009 As of December 31, 2008 Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Assets Notes Receivable $ 60,567 $ 44,092 $ 68,812 $ 62,000 Liabilities Debt $ 2,087,990 $ 1,748,617 $ 2,381,824 $ 2,068,725 Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable. The Company estimates that the fair value approximates carrying value due to the relatively short maturity of the instruments. (9) Investment in Non-Consolidated Entities Net Lease Strategic Assets Fund L.P. (“NLS”). NLS is a co-investment program with a subsidiary of Inland American Real Estate Trust, Inc. (“Inland”). NLS was established to acquire single-tenant net-lease specialty real estate in the United States. Since the formation of NLS in 2007, the Company has contributed fee and leasehold interests in 19 properties and $15,258 in cash to NLS, and Inland has contributed $217,340 in cash to NLS. In addition, the Company sold, for cash, leasehold interests in 24 properties, plus a 40% tenant-in-common interest in a property, to NLS and recorded an aggregate gain of $31,806 and $19,422 (including the Company’s share of gain on the 40% interest in a property) in 2008 and 2007, respectively, which was limited by the Company’s aggregate ownership interest in NLS’s common and preferred equity. The properties were subject to approximately $339,500 in mortgage debt, which was assumed by NLS. The mortgage debt assumed by NLS had stated interest rates ranging from 5.1% to 8.5%, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.1%, and maturity dates ranging from 2009 to 2025. After these transactions, Inland and the Company own 85% and 15%, respectively, of NLS’s common equity and the Company owns 100% of NLS’s preferred equity. Inland and the Company are currently entitled to a return on/of their respective investments as follows: (1) Inland, 9% on its common equity ($220,590 in common equity), (2) the Company, 6.5% on its preferred equity ($162,487 in preferred equity), (3) the Company, 9% on its common equity ($38,928 in common equity), (4) return of the Company preferred equity ($162,487 in preferred equity), (5) return of Inland common equity ($220,590 in common equity), (6) return of the Company common equity ($38,928 in common equity) and (7) any remaining cash flow is allocated 65% to Inland and 35% to the Company as long as the Company is the general partner, if not, allocations are 85% to Inland and 15% to the Company. In addition to the capital contributions described above, the Company and Inland have committed to invest up to an additional $22,500 and $127,500, respectively, in NLS to acquire additional specialty single-tenant net-leased assets. LRA has entered into a management agreement with NLS whereby LRA will receive (1) a management fee of 0.375% of the equity capital, as defined, (2) a property management fee of up to 3.0% of actual gross revenues from certain assets for which the landlord is obligated to provide property management services (contingent upon the recoverability of such fees from the tenant under the applicable lease), and (3) an acquisition fee of 0.5% of the gross purchase price of each acquired asset by NLS. 72 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The following is summary historical cost basis selected balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period December 20, 2007 (inception) to December 31, 2007. As of 12/31/09 As of 12/31/08 Real estate, including intangibles, net $ 682,165 $ 719,409 Cash, including restricted cash 10,586 9,370 Mortgages payable 312,273 320,898 Noncontrolling preferred interest 175,730 170,772 Partners’ capital 200,610 233,281 For the Year Ended 12/31/09 For the Year Ended 12/31/08 For the Period 12/20/07 to 12/31/07 Total gross revenues $ 58,642 $ 50,616 $ 951 Depreciation and amortization (38,996 ) (32,499 ) — Interest expense (19,715 ) (17,667 ) (338 ) Other expenses, net (3,482 ) (3,272 ) (14 ) Net income (loss) $ (3,551 ) $ (2,822 ) $ 599 During the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized $12,364 and ($16,902), respectively, of equity in earnings (losses) relating to NLS based upon the hypothetical liquidation book value method. The difference between the assets contributed to NLS and the fair value of the Company’s equity investment in NLS is $94,723 and is accreted into earnings over the estimated useful lives of NLS’s assets. During 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded earnings of $3,636 and $3,213, respectively, related to this difference, which is included in equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations. During 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred transaction costs relating to the formation of NLS of $1,138 and $2,316, respectively, which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements or Operations. Concord Debt Holdings LLC (“Concord”) and Lex-Win Concord LLC (“Lex-Win Concord”). On December 31, 2006 in connection with the merger with Newkirk, the Company acquired a 50% interest in a co-investment program, Concord, which owns bonds and loans secured, directly and indirectly, by real estate assets. Newkirk has contributed $91,711 to the co-investment program and the Company has contributed $70,789 since the merger. The other 50% interest in Concord was held by WRT Realty L.P. ("Winthrop"). The Company’s former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the parent of Winthrop. The Company and Winthrop each contributed its interest in Concord to Lex-Win Concord. 73 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The following is summary balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 for Lex-Win Concord: As of As of 12/31/2009 12/31/2008 Assets $ 634,508 $ 1,007,122 Liabilities 569,894 711,359 Noncontrolling preferred interest 5,720 76,441 Members' capital 58,894 219,322 For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Income $ 38,955 $ 87,336 $ 68,453 Other-than-temporary impairment losses, loan losses and reserves (230,195 ) (104,885 ) (11,028 ) Interest and other expenses (33,763 ) (41,234 ) (47,216 ) Net income (loss) (225,003 ) (58,783 ) 10,209 Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 68,697 (1,631 ) (13 ) Net income (loss) attributable to members $ (156,306 ) $ (60,414 ) $ 10,196 Unless they are designated as held for sale, Concord’s loan assets are carried at cost, net of unamortized loan origination costs and fees, repayments and unfunded commitments unless such loan is deemed to be impaired. Concord’s loan assets that are designated as held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Concord’s bonds are treated as available for sale securities and, accordingly, are marked-to-estimated fair value on a quarterly basis based on valuations performed by Concord’s management. Concord began experiencing declines in the fair value of its loan securities in the fourth quarter of 2007 consistent with liquidity concerns impacting the bond and real estate markets and the overall economy. As a result, Concord has recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008 and 2009. In addition, the Company’s management performed a comprehensive analysis of its investment in Lex-Win Concord on a quarterly basis to determine if the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. During the first half of 2009, primarily due to (1) the continued deterioration in the value of Concord’s loan and bond portfolio, (2) a margin call received by Concord and potential additional margin calls, (3) the preferred equity investor’s failure to fund the requested Concord capital call, (4) an increase in Concord borrower defaults, (5) Concord’s debt covenant violations, and (6) the distressed sale of assets and potential sale of assets at distressed levels to satisfy margin calls and amendments to lender agreements, the Company’s management determined that its investment in Lex-Win Concord had suffered a significant decrease in value and ultimately should be valued at zero. As a result, the Company recorded aggregate $68,213 of other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2009. These additional impairment charges are recognized as a component of equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated entities. Concord incurred additional losses during the remainder of 2009, of which the Company's share is $10,588. The Company has not recorded these losses and has suspended them as the Company does not have any future obligation or the intent to fund the future operations of Concord. In order to satisfy debt repayments of Concord to one of its lenders, a capital contribution was made to Concord by Lex-Win Concord, and short-term secured loans were made directly to a Concord subsidiary by the Company and Winthrop during the third quarter of 2009. The contribution was returned and loans were repaid in full within 30 days of initial funding. The contribution to Concord by Lex-Win Concord represented additional equity at risk for Lex-Win Concord at the time of the contribution, which triggered a reconsideration event during the third quarter of 2009 at both the Concord and the Lex-Win Concord levels. Due to the continued decline in value of Concord’s assets and resulting insufficient equity within Concord to finance its activities, Lex-Win Concord’s management determined that Concord, and by extension, Lex-Win Concord, are VIEs. The Company’s management performed an analysis and concurred with the assessment, however, the Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these VIEs. The operations of the co-investment program are not controlled by the Company, and other than a non-recourse carve-out guaranty (for “bad boy” acts), the Company has not guaranteed any obligations of Concord. In addition, the Company has no obligation to fund the operations of Concord, and it does not plan to fund future operations of Concord. As a result, the Company will continue to account for the investment under the equity method. 74 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Lex-Win Acquisition LLC (“Lex-Win”). During 2007, Lex-Win, an entity in which the Company holds a 28% ownership interest, acquired 3.9 million shares of common stock in Piedmont Office Realty Trust, Inc. (formerly known as Wells Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc.) (“Wells”), a non-exchange traded entity, at a price per share of $9.30 in a tender offer. During 2007, the Company funded $12,542 relating to this tender and received $1,890 relating to an adjustment of the number of shares tendered. Winthrop and three other members hold the remaining interests in Lex-Win. The Company’s former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions is the Chief Executive Officer of the parent of Winthrop. Profits, losses and cash flows of Lex-Win are allocated in accordance with the membership interests. During 2008, Lex-Win incurred losses of $3,847 relating to its investment in Wells and sold its entire interest in Wells for $32,289. Other Equity Method Investment Limited Partnerships . During 2009, the Company recognized a gain of $2,000 on the sale of an office building in Columbia, South Carolina, in which the Company held a 40% limited partnership interest. The Company’s share of net proceeds from the sale was $12,513. In addition, the Company sold its interest in a hotel joint venture for $60 during 2009. The Company’s remaining equity method investments consist of interests in five partnerships with ownership percentages ranging between 27% and 35%, which own primarily net-leased properties. All profits, losses and cash flows are distributed in accordance with the respective partnership agreements. The partnerships are encumbered by $29,433 in mortgage debt (the Company’s proportionate share is $8,801) with interest rates ranging from 9.4% to 11.5% with a weighted average rate of 9.9% and maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2016. The Company, through LRA, earns advisory fees from certain of these non-consolidated entities for services related to acquisitions, asset management and debt placement. Advisory fees earned from these non-consolidated investments were $1,140, $1,105 and $1,226 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company earned incentive fees in 2007 of $11,685. (10) Mortgages and Notes Payable and Contract Right Payable The Company had outstanding mortgages and notes payable of $1,857,909 and $2,033,854 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding discontinued operations. Interest rates, including imputed rates on mortgages and notes payable, ranged from 3.1% to 10.3% at December 31, 2009 and the mortgages and notes payable mature between 2010 and 2022. Interest rates, including imputed rates, ranged from 2.0% to 10.5% at December 31, 2008. The weighted average interest rate at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately 5.6% and 5.5%, respectively. On February 13, 2009, the Company refinanced its (1) $200,000 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $25,000 outstanding and was scheduled to expire in June 2009, and (2) $225,000 secured term loan, which had $174,280 outstanding and was scheduled to mature in 2009, with a secured credit facility consisting of a $165,000 term loan and a $85,000 revolving loan with KeyBank N.A. (“KeyBank”), as agent. The secured credit facility bears interest at 285 basis points over LIBOR and matures in February 2011, but can be extended to February 2012 at the Company’s option. With the consent of the lenders, the Company can increase the size of (1) the term loan by $135,000 and (2) the revolving loan by $115,000 (or $250,000 in the aggregate, for a total facility size of $500,000, assuming no prepayments of the term loan are made) by adding properties to the borrowing base or admitting additional lenders. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company increased the availability under the revolving loan by $40,000, by admitting an additional lender to the bank group, thus increasing the total facility to $290,000. The secured credit facility is secured by ownership interest pledges and guarantees by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries that in the aggregate own interests in a borrowing base consisting of 75 properties as of December 31, 2009. The borrowing availability of the facility is based upon the net operating income of the properties comprising the borrowing base as defined in the facility. As of December 31, 2009, the available additional borrowing under the secured credit facility was $96,578 and the Company had $7,483 outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2009, $164,348 was outstanding under the term loan and $7,000 was outstanding under the revolving loan. In connection with the refinancing and the subsequent increase in the availability under the facility, the Company incurred $4,977 in financing costs and recognized $247 in debt satisfaction charges. The secured credit facility is subject to financial and other covenants, such as leverage ratio and debt service coverages, which the Company was in compliance with at December 31, 2009. During 2008, the Company obtained $25,000 and $45,000 original principal amount secured term loans from KeyBank. The loans are interest only at LIBOR plus 60 basis points and mature in 2013. The net proceeds of the loans of $68,000 were used to partially repay indebtedness on three cross-collateralized mortgages. After such repayment, the amount owed on the three mortgages was $103,511, the three mortgages were combined into one mortgage, which is interest only instead of having a portion as self-amortizing and matures in September 2014. The Company was in compliance with the loan covenants as of December 31, 2009. These loans have an outstanding principal balance of $25,000 and $35,723, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 75 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Pursuant to the new loan agreements, the Company simultaneously entered into an interest-rate swap agreement with KeyBank to swap the LIBOR rate on the loans for a fixed rate of 4.9196% through March 18, 2013, and the Company assumed a liability for the fair value of the swap at inception of approximately $5,696 ($5,240 and $7,055 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively). The new debt is presented net of a discount at inception of $5,696 ($3,170 and $4,158 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively). The discount is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loans. During 2009 and 2008, the Company obtained $11,540 and $21,245 original principal amount in non-recourse mortgages that bear interest at a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.4% and 6.0%, respectively, and have maturity dates ranging from 2012 to 2018. During 2007, the Company settled an interest rate swap agreement for $1,870 in cash and recognized a loss of $649. Included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Company recognized debt satisfaction charges, excluding discontinued operations, of $85, $1,074 and $1,209 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, due to the satisfaction of mortgages and notes payable other than those disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Contract right mortgage payable is a promissory note with a fixed interest rate of 9.68%, which provides for the following amortization payments: Year ending December 31, Total 2010 $ 491 2011 540 2012 593 2013 652 2014 717 Thereafter 12,259 $ 15,252 Mortgages payable and secured loans are generally collateralized by real estate and the related leases. Certain mortgages payable have yield maintenance or defeasance requirements relating to any prepayments. In addition, certain mortgages are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted. Scheduled principal and balloon payments for mortgages and notes payable for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: Year ending December 31, Total 2010 (1) $ 139,486 2011 (1) 287,408 2012 221,918 2013 319,557 2014 260,435 Thereafter 629,105 $ 1,857,909 (1) Subsequent to December 31, 2009, $14,749 of 2010 and $78,354 of 2011 maturities have been satisfied. 76 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (11) Exchangeable Notes and Trust Preferred Securities During 2007, the Company issued an aggregate $450,000 original principal amount of 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes due in 2027. These notes can be put to the Company commencing in 2012 and every five years thereafter through maturity and upon certain events. The notes are exchangeable by the holders into common shares of the Company at a current price of $19.49 per share, subject to adjustment upon certain events. Upon exchange, the holders of the notes would receive (1) cash equal to the principal amount of the note and (2) to the extent the exchange value exceeds the principal amount of the note, either cash or common shares of the Company at the Company’s option. The notes had an outstanding balance of $85,709 and $204,074, net of unamortized discount of $1,941 and $6,926, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The initial discount of $23,693 was retrospectively recorded. The discount is being amortized as additional interest expense through January 2012, the first put date of the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes. Coupon interest expense on the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes was $7,554, $17,552 and $21,936 for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The discount amortization on the notes was $1,479, $3,544 and $4,231 for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The notes had an effective interest rate of 7.0%, 6.9% and 6.5% for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, the Company repurchased $123,350 and $239,000, respectively, original principal amount of the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes for cash payments and issuances of common shares of the Company of $101,006 and $192,984, respectively. As a result, the Company recognized a gain on debt extinguishment of $17,355 and $36,042, respectively, during 2009 and 2008, net of write-offs of $4,989 and $12,793, respectively, of the unamortized debt discount and deferred financing costs. During 2007, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, issued $200,000 original principal amount of Trust Preferred Securities. The Trust Preferred Securities, which are classified as debt, are due in 2037, are redeemable by the Company commencing April 2012 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.804% through April 2017 and thereafter, at a variable rate of three month LIBOR plus 170 basis points through maturity. During 2008, the Company repurchased $70,880 original principal amount of the Trust Preferred Securities for a cash payment of $44,561, which resulted in a gain on debt extinguishment of $24,742 including a write-off of $1,577 in deferred financing costs. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there was $129,120 original principal amount of Trust Preferred Securities outstanding. Scheduled principal payments for these debt instrument for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: Year ending December 31, Total 2010 $ — 2011 — 2012 (1) 85,709 2013 — 2014 — Thereafter 129,120 $ 214,829 __________ (1) Although the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes mature in 2027, the notes can be put to the Company in 2012, and the amount is shown net of $1,941 debt discount. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, $23,000 original principal amount of the notes was satisfied. 77 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (12) Derivatives and Hedging Activities Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives. The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates and other factors. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company’s investments and borrowings. Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk. The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense, to manage its exposure to interest rate movements and therefore manage its cash outflows as it relates to the underlying debt instruments. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy relating to certain of its variable rate debt instruments. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings. The Company has designated the interest-rate swap agreement with KeyBank as a cash flow hedge of the risk of variability attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate on $45,000 and $25,000 of LIBOR-indexed variable-rate secured term loans. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings as interest becomes receivable or payable. Because the fair value of the swap at inception of the hedge was not zero, the Company cannot assume that there will be no ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship. However, the Company expects the hedging relationship to be highly effective and will measure and report any ineffectiveness in earnings. During 2008, the Company terminated a portion of the swap for a notional amount of $9,277 due to a payment of the same amount on the $45,000 term loan. The Company recognized $253 of interest expense during 2008 due to the swap’s ineffectiveness and forecasted transactions no longer being probable. The interest rate swap liability had a fair value of $5,240 and $7,055 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its interest rate swap liability fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation associated with the interest rate swap liability utilizes Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties. However, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has determined that the credit valuation adjustment relative to the overall interest rate swap liability is not significant. As a result, the entire interest rate swap liability has been classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on these secured term loans. During the next 12 months, the Company estimates that an additional $1,624 will be reclassified to earnings as an increase to interest expense. 78 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) As of December 31, 2009, the Company had the following outstanding interest rate derivative that was designated as a cash flow hedge of interest rate risk: Interest Rate Derivative Number of Instruments Notional Interest Rate Swap 1 $60,723 Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had the following outstanding derivative that was not designated as a hedge in a qualifying hedging relationship: Product Number of Instruments Notional Forward purchase equity commitment 1 $24,166 During 2008, the Company entered into a forward purchase equity commitment with a financial institution to finance the repurchase of 3,500,000 common shares of the Company at $5.60 per share, under the Company’s common share repurchase plan as approved by the Board of Trustees. The Company has prepaid $15,576 with the remainder to be paid in October 2011 through (i) physical settlement or (ii) net cash settlement, net share settlement or a combination of both, at the Company’s option. The Company agreed to make floating payments during the term of the forward purchase at LIBOR plus 250 basis points per annum and the Company retains the cash dividends paid on the common shares, however, the counterparty retains any stock dividends as additional collateral. In addition, the Company may be required to make additional prepayments pursuant to the forward purchase equity commitment. The Company’s third party consultant determined the fair value of the equity commitment to be $20,141 and $10,698 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and the Company recognized earnings during 2009 of $7,182 and losses of ($2,128) during 2008, primarily relating to the increase (decrease) in the fair value of the common shares held as collateral. The Company has determined that the forward purchase equity asset should fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as its value is based not only on the value of the Company’s common share price but other observable inputs. The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. As of December 31, 2009 As of December 31, 2008 Balance Sheet Location Fair Value Balance Sheet Location Fair Value Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Interest Rate Swap Liability Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities $ 5,240 Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities $ 7,055 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Forward Purchase Equity Commitment Other Assets $ 20,141 Other Assets $ 10,698 79 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The tables below present the effect of the Company’s derivative financial instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2009. Derivatives in Cash Flow Amount of Loss Recognized in OCI on Derivative (Effective Portion) December 31, Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income Amount of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion) December 31, Hedging Relationships 2009 (Effective Portion) 2009 Interest Rate Swap $ 990 Interest expense $ (2,805 ) Derivatives Not Designated as Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Amount of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative December 31, Hedging Instruments Derivative 2009 Forward Purchase Equity Commitment Change in value of forward purchase commitment $ 7,182 The Company’s agreement with the swap derivative counterparty contains a provision whereby if the Company defaults on the underlying indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender, then the Company could also be declared in default of the swap derivative obligation. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has not posted any collateral related to the agreement. If the Company had breached any of these provisions at December 31, 2009, it would have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at the termination value of $5,665, which includes accrued interest. The Company’s forward purchase equity commitment contains default provisions, which, if triggered, would require the Company to settle the contract. The settlement value of the contract at December 31, 2009 was $4,024, net of prepayments. (13) Variable Interest Entities GAAP requires a VIE to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that absorbs a majority of the VIE’s anticipated losses and/or a majority of the expected returns. The Company evaluates its loans and investments to determine whether they are variable interests in a VIE. This evaluation resulted in the Company determining that its loans and investments were potential variable interests. For each of these investments, the Company has evaluated (1) the sufficiency of the fair value of the entities’ equity investments at risk to absorb losses; (2) that as a group the holders of the equity investments at risk have (a) the direct or indirect ability through voting rights to make decisions about the entities’ significant activities, (b) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity and their obligations are not protected directly or indirectly and, (c) the right to receive the expected residual return of the entity and their rights are not capped; and (3) the voting rights of these investors are not proportional to their obligations to absorb the expected losses of the entity, their rights to receive the expected returns of the entity, or both, and that substantially all of the entities’ activities do not involve or are not conducted on behalf of an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights. The Company, through its merger with Newkirk as of December 31, 2006, has one loan which was made to a VIE, Camfex Associates Limited Partnership (“Camfex”). The Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of this VIE and, accordingly, has consolidated Camfex in its financial statements. Camfex owns two multi-tenanted office buildings in California, with a carrying value of approximately $36,658 at December 31, 2009. Camfex has additional mortgage debt of approximately $23,732 as of December 31, 2009. The lenders of the additional mortgage debt hold no recourse to other Company assets. The mortgage debt had a stated maturity date of December 1, 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2009, Camfex’s management entered into forbearance agreements with its senior lenders. As a result, one property was sold to its tenant/lender in January 2010. In addition, the Company paid $50 to receive a deed in lieu of foreclosure on the second property in 2010, and the Company is currently restructuring the senior debt with the property’s existing lender. 80 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The Company identified two additional VIEs during 2009 due to reconsideration events, Lex-Win Concord (see note 9) and Linwood Avenue Limited Partnership (“Linwood”). The Company holds a 55% interest in Linwood. Linwood owns an office building and an industrial building in Long Beach, California, with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $103,499 at December 31, 2009. The lenders of Linwood’s contract right payable ($15,252 at December 31, 2009) hold no recourse to other Company assets. During 2009, Linwood required additional capital to fund tenant improvements and lease commissions. The Company contributed $2,146 to the joint venture during 2009, which is eliminated in consolidation, and the Company is not obligated to fund future amounts. The Company determined that it is the primary beneficiary of Linwood and thus continues to consolidate the venture. The Company has determined that other loans and investments are not VIEs and as such, the Company has continued to account for these loans and investments as a loan or equity investment, as appropriate. (14) Leases Lessor: Minimum future rental receipts under the non-cancellable portion of tenant leases, assuming no new or re-negotiated leases, for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: Year ending December 31, Total 2010 $ 310,480 2011 301,566 2012 273,888 2013 233,370 2014 191,536 Thereafter 712,274 $ 2,023,114 The above minimum lease payments do not include reimbursements to be received from tenants for certain operating expenses and real estate taxes and do not include early termination payments provided for in certain leases. Certain leases allow for the tenant to terminate the lease if the property is deemed obsolete, as defined, and upon payment of a termination fee to the Company, as stipulated in the lease. In addition, certain leases provide the tenant with the right to purchase the leased property at fair market value or a stipulated price. Lessee: The Company holds leasehold interests in various properties. Generally, the ground rents on these properties are either paid directly by the tenants to the fee holder or reimbursed to the Company as additional rent. Certain properties are economically owned through the holding of industrial revenue bonds and as such neither ground lease payments nor bond debt service payments are made or received, respectively. For certain of these properties, the Company has an option to purchase the fee interest. Minimum future rental payments under non-cancellable leasehold interests, excluding leases held through industrial revenue bonds and lease payments in the future that are based upon fair market value, for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: Year ending December 31, Total 2010 $ 2,148 2011 1,896 2012 1,664 2013 1,480 2014 1,074 Thereafter 4,544 $ 12,806 Rent expense for the leasehold interests was $1,039, $995 and $1,481 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 81 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) The Company leases its corporate headquarters. The lease expires December 2015, with rent fixed at $1,299 per annum through December 2011 and will be adjusted to fair market value, as defined in the lease, thereafter. The Company is also responsible for its proportionate share of operating expenses and real estate taxes above a base year. As an incentive to enter the lease, the Company received a payment of $845 which it is amortizing as a reduction of rent expense. The minimum lease payments for the office are $1,299 for 2010 and 2011. Rent expense for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $1,282, $958 and $975, respectively, and is included in general and administrative expenses. (15) Noncontrolling Interests In conjunction with several of the Company’s acquisitions in prior years, sellers were issued OP units as a form of consideration in exchange for the property. Substantially all OP units, other than the OP units held directly or indirectly by the Company, are redeemable at certain times, only at the option of the holders, and are not otherwise mandatorily redeemable by the Company. The OP units are classified as a component of permanent equity as the Company determined that the OP units are not redeemable securities. Each OP unit is currently redeemable for approximately 1.13 common shares, subject to future adjustments. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 4,787,000 OP units outstanding, of which approximately 1,519,000 are held by related parties. Generally, holders of OP units are entitled to receive distributions equal to the dividends paid to the Company’s common shareholders on an as redeemed basis, except that certain OP units have stated distributions in accordance with their respective partnership agreement. To the extent that the Company’s dividend per share is less than the stated distribution per unit per the applicable partnership agreement, the stated distributions per unit are reduced by the percentage reduction in the Company’s dividend. The Company is party to a funding agreement with the Company’s operating partnerships under which the Company may be required to fund distributions made on account of OP units. No OP units have a liquidation preference. The following discloses the effects of changes in the Company’s ownership interests in its noncontrolling interests: Net Income Attributable to Lexington Realty Trust and Transfers (to) from Noncontrolling Interests 2009 2008 2007 Net income (loss) attributable to Lexington Realty Trust $ (210,152 ) $ 2,754 $ 75,249 Transfers from noncontrolling interests: Increase in additional paid-in-capital/common shares for redemption/repurchase of noncontrolling interest OP units 3,580 516,696 25,223 Decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income for redemption of noncontrolling interest OP units — (5,019 ) — Change from net income (loss) attributable to Lexington Realty Trust and transfers (to) from noncontrolling interest $ (206,572 ) $ 514,431 $ 100,472 (16) Shareholders’ Equity During 2009, the Company declared that three of its quarterly common share dividends would be paid in a combination of cash (10% in the aggregate) and common shares. The following details the declared 2009 quarterly common share dividends: Dividend Per common share amount Dividend Common Shares Issued Cash Paid ($000) First quarter 2009 $ 0.18 April 24, 2009 5,097,229 $ 1,819 Second quarter 2009 $ 0.18 July 30, 2009 4,333,183 $ 1,970 Third quarter 2009 $ 0.18 October 16, 2009 3,873,786 $ 2,110 Fourth quarter 2009 $ 0.10 January 15, 2010 - $ 12,194 During 2009, the Company issued 4,338,915 common shares under its direct share purchase plan, raising net proceeds of $20,947. 82 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) In June 2009, the Company converted 503,100 shares of its Series C Preferred by issuing 2,955,368 of its common shares. The difference between the fair value of common shares issued and the fair value of common shares issuable pursuant to the original conversion terms of $6,994 is considered a deemed dividend and as such is recorded as a reduction in shareholders' equity and as an increase to preferred dividends paid for calculating earnings (loss) per share, even though the conversion was for equivalent fair values. During 2008, the Company repurchased and retired 501,700 shares of Series C Preferred by issuing 727,759 of its common shares and paying $7,522 in cash. The difference between the cost to retire these shares of Series C Preferred and the historical cost of these shares was $5,678 and is treated as an increase to shareholders’ equity and as a reduction in preferred dividends paid for calculating earnings (loss) per share. On June 30, 2008, the Company issued 3,450,000 of its common shares raising net proceeds of approximately $47,237. The proceeds, along with cash held, were used to retire $25,000 original principal amount of the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes at a price plus accrued interest of $22,937, and $67,755 original principal amount of the Trust Preferred Securities at a price plus accrued interest of $43,454. During 2008 and 2007, the Company repurchased and retired 1,213,251 and 9,784,062, respectively, of its common shares and OP units under a repurchase plan authorized by the Company’s Board of Trustees. The common shares and OP units were repurchased in the open market and through private transactions with employees and third parties at an average price of $14.28 and $19.83, respectively, per common share/OP unit. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 1,057,000 common shares/OP units were eligible for repurchase under the current authorization adopted by the Company’s Board of Trustees. During 2007, the Company issued 6,200,000 shares of its Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series D Preferred”) having a liquidation amount of $155,000 and annual dividends at a rate of 7.55%, raising net proceeds of $149,774. The Series D Preferred has no maturity date and the Company is not required to redeem the Series D Preferred at any time. Accordingly, the Series D Preferred will remain outstanding indefinitely, unless the Company decides at its option on or after February 14, 2012, to exercise its redemption right. If at any time following a change of control, the Series D Preferred are not listed on any of the national stock exchanges, the Company will have the option to redeem the Series D Preferred, in whole but not in part, within 90 days after the first date on which both the change of control has occurred and the Series D Preferred are not so listed, for cash at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) up to but excluding the redemption date. If the Company does not redeem the Series D Preferred and the Series D Preferred are not so listed, the Series D Preferred will pay dividends at an annual rate of 8.55%. The Company has 2,095,200 shares of Series C Preferred, outstanding at December 31, 2009. The shares have a dividend of $3.25 per share per annum, have a liquidation preference of $104,760, and the Company, if certain common share prices are achieved, can force conversion into common shares of the Company. The shares are currently convertible into 2.4339 common shares. This conversion ratio may increase over time if the Company’s common share dividend exceeds certain quarterly thresholds. If certain fundamental changes occur, holders may require the Company, in certain circumstances, to repurchase all or part of their Series C Preferred. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes, the Company will, under certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional common shares or, in lieu thereof, may in certain circumstances elect to adjust the conversion rate upon the Series C Preferred becoming convertible into shares of the public acquiring or surviving company. The Company may, at the Company’s option, cause the Series C Preferred to be automatically converted into that number of common shares that are issuable at the then prevailing conversion rate. The Company may exercise its conversion right only if, at certain times, the closing price of the Company’s common shares equals or exceeds 125% of the then prevailing conversion price of the Series C Preferred. Investors in the Series C Preferred generally have no voting rights, but will have limited voting rights if the Company fails to pay dividends for six or more quarters and under certain other circumstances. Upon conversion the Company may choose to deliver the conversion value to investors in cash, common shares, or a combination of cash and common shares. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, holders of an aggregate of 520,487, 34,377,989 and 1,283,629 OP units, respectively, redeemed such OP units for common shares of the Company. These redemptions resulted in an aggregate increase in shareholders’ equity and corresponding decrease in noncontrolling interest of $3,580, $511,521 and $25,223, respectively. 83 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) During 2009 and 2008, the Company issued 376,400 and 211,125 of its common shares, respectively, to certain employees and trustees. Common shares issued generally vest ratably, on anniversaries of the grant date, however in certain situations the vesting is cliff-based after a specific number of years and/or subject to meeting certain performance criteria. See note 17. During 2007, the Company issued 282,051 common shares, respectively, under its dividend reinvestment plan which allows shareholders to reinvest dividends in common shares of the Company. The Company has retrospectively recorded an additional paid-in-capital amount of $23,132 representing the conversion feature of the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes with the adoption of new accounting guidance. The initial amount of $23,132 was reduced to $20,293 during 2008 as a result of the Company’s repurchases of certain of these notes. The following represents the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency translation $ 740 $ 759 $ 855 Unrealized gain (loss) on marketable equity securities - - (107 ) Unrealized gain (loss) on interest rate swap (67 ) (1,882 ) — Unrealized gain (loss) from non-consolidated entities - (14,527 ) (3,526 ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 673 $ (15,650 ) $ (2,778 ) (17) Benefit Plans The Company maintains an equity award plan pursuant to which qualified and non-qualified options may be issued. Options granted under the plan prior to 2008 generally vested over a period of one to four years and expired five years from date of grant. No compensation cost was reflected in earnings as all options granted under the plan prior to 2008 had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common shares on the date of grant. The Company granted 2,000,000 common share options on December 31, 2008. The options (1) vest 50% following a 20-day trading period where the average closing price of a common share of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange is $8.00 or higher and 50% following a 20-day trading period where the average closing price is $10.00 or higher and (2) expire 10 years from date of grant. As a result of the share dividends paid in 2009, each of these options is exchangeable for approximately 1.13 common shares. The Company engaged a third party to value the options as of December 31, 2008. The third party determined the value to be $2,480 using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The options are considered equity awards as the number of options issued is fixed and determinable at the date of grant. As such, the options were valued as of the date of the grant and do not require subsequent remeasurement. There were several assumptions used to fair value the options including the expected volatility in the Company’s common share price based upon the fluctuation in the Company’s historical common share price. The more significant assumptions underlying the determination of fair value for options granted during 2008 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 Weighted average fair value of options granted $ 1.24 Weighted average risk-free interest rates 1.33 % Weighted average expected option lives (in years) 3.60 Weighted average expected volatility 59.94 % Weighted average expected dividend yield 14.40 % In addition, the Company recognizes compensation expense relating to these options over an average of 3.6 years. The Company recognized $688 in compensation expense during 2009 and has unrecognized compensation costs of $1,792 relating to the outstanding options as of December 31, 2009. 84 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Share option activity during the years indicated is as follows: Number of Shares Weighted-Average Exercise Price Per Share Balance at December 31, 2006 16,500 $ 15.56 Granted — — Exercised (15,500 ) 15.56 Forfeited — — Expired (1,000 ) 15.50 Balance at December 31, 2007 — — Granted 2,000,000 5.60 Balance at December 31, 2008 2,000,000 5.60 Granted — — Balance at December 31, 2009 2,000,000 $ 5.60 The Company sponsors a 401(k) retirement savings plan covering all eligible employees. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company matched 100% of the first approximately 1.125% of employee contributions. In addition, based on its profitability, the Company may make a discretionary contribution at each fiscal year end to all eligible employees. The matching and discretionary contributions are subject to vesting under a schedule providing for 25% annual vesting starting with the first year of employment and 100% vesting after four years of employment. Approximately $321, $366 and $382 of contributions are applicable to 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Non-vested share activity for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows: Number of Shares Weighted- Average Value Per Share Balance at December 31, 2007 421,723 $ 22.06 Granted 211,125 13.47 Forfeited (5,622 ) 18.47 Vested (139,682 ) 17.54 Balance at December 31, 2008 487,544 19.48 Granted 376,400 4.94 Vested (120,602 ) 12.28 Balance at December 31, 2009 743,342 $ 13.28 As of December 31, 2009, of the remaining 743,342 non-vested shares, 210,903 are subject to time vesting and 532,439 are subject to performance vesting. At December 31, 2009, there are 2,289,164 awards available for grant. The Company has $4,654 in unrecognized compensation costs relating to the unvested shares that will be charged to compensation expense over an average of approximately 2.2 years. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized $3,369, $3,980 and $3,645, respectively, in compensation expense relating to share grants to trustees and employees. The Company has established a trust for certain officers in which non-vested common shares, which generally vest ratably over five years, granted for the benefit of the officers are deposited. The officers exert no control over the common shares in the trust and the common shares are available to the general creditors of the Company. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were 427,531 common shares in the trust. On February 6, 2007, the Company’s Board of Trustees established the Lexington Realty Trust 2007 Outperformance Program, a long-term incentive compensation program. Awards under the program are considered liability awards because the number of shares issued to the participants are not fixed and determinable as of the grant date. These awards contain both a service condition and a market condition. As these awards are liability based awards, the measurement date for liability instruments is the date of settlement. Accordingly, liabilities incurred under share-based payment arrangements were initially measured on the grant date of February 6, 2007 and are required to be measured at the end of each reporting period until settlement. The determination period to calculate the number of common shares issued under the program expired on December 31, 2009 and no common shares were issued. 85 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) A third party was engaged to value the awards and the Monte Carlo simulation model was used to estimate the compensation expense of the outperformance pool. As of grant date, it was determined that the value of the awards was $1,901. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the value of the awards was $0 and $343, respectively. The Company recognized $96, $15 and ($111) in compensation income (expense) relating to the award during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During 2008, the Company and a former executive officer and his affiliate entered into a Services and Non-Compete Agreement and a Separation and General Release. In addition to an aggregate cash payment of $1,500 paid in 2008, non-vested common shares previously issued to the officer were accelerated and immediately vested which resulted in a charge of $265. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company and an executive officer entered into an employment separation agreement. In addition to a cash payment of $3,600, non-vested common shares were accelerated and immediately vested which resulted in a charge of $933. (18) Income Taxes The provision for income taxes relates primarily to the taxable income of the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries. The earnings, other than in taxable REIT subsidiaries, of the Company are not generally subject to Federal income taxes at the Company level due to the REIT election made by the Company. Income taxes have been provided for on the asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The Company’s provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is summarized as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Current: Federal $ (401 ) $ (395 ) $ (928 ) State and local (2,107 ) (1,866 ) (2,592 ) NOL utilized 343 629 799 Deferred: Federal (187 ) (972 ) (407 ) State and local (26 ) (381 ) (159 ) $ (2,378 ) $ (2,985 ) $ (3,287 ) Deferred tax liabilities of $638 and $442 are included in other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These deferred tax liabilities relate primarily to differences in the timing of the recognition of income/(loss) between GAAP and tax, basis of real estate investments and net operating loss carry forwards. The income tax benefit (provision) differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax operating income as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Federal benefit (provision) at statutory tax rate (34)% $ (376 ) $ (397 ) $ 488 State and local taxes, net of federal benefit (33 ) (45 ) 4 Other (1,969 ) (2,543 ) (3,779 ) $ (2,378 ) $ (2,985 ) $ (3,287 ) For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the “other” amount is comprised primarily of state taxes of $2,051, $1,804 and $2,309, respectively, and the write-off of deferred tax assets of $0, $742 and $1,605, respectively, relating to the dissolution of the Company’s taxable subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has estimated net operating loss carry forwards for federal income tax reporting purposes of $2,549 and $3,476, respectively, which would begin to expire in tax year 2025. No valuation allowances have been recorded against deferred tax assets as the Company believes they are fully realizable, based upon projected future taxable income. 86 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (19) Commitments and Contingencies In addition to the commitments and contingencies disclosed elsewhere, the Company has the following commitments and contingencies. From time to time the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In management’s opinion, after consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters, including the matters set forth below, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, result of operations or cash flows. Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. and SPCP Group LLC v. Lexington Drake, L.P., et al. (Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York-Index No. 603051/08). On June 30, 2006, the Company, including a co-investment program as it relates to the Antioch claim, sold to Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. ("Deutsche Bank"), (1) a $7,680 bankruptcy damage claim against Dana Corporation for $5,376 (the "Farmington Hills claim"), and (2) a $7,727 bankruptcy damage claim against Dana Corporation for $5,680 (the "Antioch claim"). Under the terms of the agreements covering the sale of the claims, the Company is obligated to reimburse Deutsche Bank should the claim ever be disallowed, subordinated or otherwise impaired, to the extent of such disallowance, subordination or impairment, plus interest at the rate of 10% per annum from the date of payment of the purchase price by Deutsche Bank to the Company. On October 12, 2007, Dana Corporation filed an objection to both claims. The Company assisted Deutsche Bank and the then holders of the claims in the preparation and filing of a response to the objection. Despite a belief by the Company that the objections were without merit, the holders of the claims, without the Company’s consent, settled the allowed amount of the claims at $6,500 for the Farmington Hills claim and $7,200 for the Antioch claim. Deutsche Bank made a formal demand with respect to the Farmington Hills claim in the amount of $826 plus interest, but did not make a formal demand with respect to the Antioch claim. Following a rejection of the demand by the Company, Deutsche Bank and SPCP Group, LLC filed a summons and complaint with the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York for the Farmington Hills and Antioch claims, and claimed damages of approximately $1,200 plus interest and expenses. The Company answered the complaint on November 26, 2008 and served numerous discovery requests. After almost a year of inactivity, a preliminary conference occurred on February 1, 2010. A briefing schedule was established for both plaintiffs and defendants to file motions for summary judgment, while reserving all rights to future depositions and discovery if the court finds there are outstanding questions of fact and denies the motions. The motions must be filed on or before March 11, 2010, with oppositions due on April 13, 2010 and replies due on April 28, 2010. The hearing on the motions has been initially scheduled for May 19, 2010, subject to the court’s availability. The Company intends to file a motion for summary judgment and to vigorously defend the claims for a variety of reasons, including that (1) the holders of the claims arbitrarily settled the claims for reasons based on factors other than the merits, (2) the holders of the claims voluntarily reduced the claims to participate in certain settlement pools and (3) the contract language that supports the plaintiff’s position was specifically negotiated out of the agreement covering the sale of the claims. Inland American (Concord) Sub, LLC v. Lex-Win Concord LLC and Concord Debt Holdings LLC (Delaware Court of Chancery – C.A. No. 4617-VCL). On May 22, 2009, Inland American (Concord) Sub, LLC, (“Inland Concord”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Inland American Real Estate Trust, Inc., filed a legal action against Lex-Win Concord and Concord generally seeking declaratory relief that Inland Concord should not be required to satisfy a May 11, 2009 capital call made by Concord in the amount of $24,000 and that Inland Concord is entitled to a priority return of its capital. Lex-Win Concord filed counterclaims against Inland Concord which state, in general, that Inland Concord is in material breach of the agreements with Lex-Win Concord and seeking to recover all losses incurred by it as a result of such breach. On December 21, 2009, the applicable parties and certain of their affiliates entered into a settlement agreement to resolve the action, which would provide for, among other things, (1) no obligation on any of the parties to make additional contributions to Concord, (2) the allocation of distributions equally among Inland Concord, Winthrop and the Company and (3) the formation of a new entity to be owned by subsidiaries of Inland Concord, Winthrop and the Company which, under certain circumstances would contribute assets to Concord Real Estate CDO 2006-1, LTD (“CDO-1”). The effectiveness of the settlement agreement is conditioned on certain conditions, including the ability of certain CDO-1 bonds held by a subsidiary of Concord to be cancelled. 87 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) Newkirk Skoob L.P. v. Elsevier STM, Inc. (Orange County, Florida Circuit Court – Case No. 09-CA-020180 Complex Business Litigation Court). On June 24, 2009, Newkirk Skoob L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary, (as successor to Skoob Associates L.P.) filed a complaint in the Complex Business Litigation Court of the Circuit Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County, Florida against Elsevier STM, Inc., (as successor to Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc.) (“Elsevier”), the former tenant in the Company’s Orlando, Florida facility, for breach of lease and holdover rent pursuant to the lease and Section 83.06, Florida Statutes, for the time Elsevier remained on the premises after the lease’s expiration. Elsevier filed its answer during the third quarter of 2009. The Company then filed a motion to strike certain of Elsevier’s affirmative defenses because several are insufficiently pled under Florida law, several are not legal defenses to the claims at issue, and several are not affirmative defenses at all. Elsevier filed a motion opposing our motion to strike Elsevier’s affirmative defenses, and the court granted our motion to strike Elsevier’s affirmative defenses with leave for Elsevier to amend its answer by November 9, 2009. In October, 2009, Elsevier paid a portion of past-due rent, but a rent and real estate tax reimbursement balance of $1,106 (not including default interest) remains unpaid. Trial is set for April 2011. The Company filed a motion to amend its complaint to add additional allegations of breach including code violations and failure to remove items from the premises, which Elsevier opposed, and a hearing is set for March 3, 2010. Expert inspections have occurred, and expert reports are being prepared. Discovery is continuing. The Company intends to pursue this claim vigorously, as the Company believes after consultation with counsel that the Company is entitled to recovery of the past-due rent, real estate tax allocation and the costs of deferred maintenance under the lease. Other. Certain employees have employment contracts and are entitled to severance benefits in the case of a change of control, as defined in the employment contract. The Company, including its non-consolidated entities, are obligated under certain tenant leases to fund tenant improvements and the expansion of the underlying leased properties. During 2007, the Company wrote off approximately $431 relating to costs incurred for the LSAC initial public offering. The costs were written off when LSAC decided not to pursue an initial public offering of its shares. The Company has entered into sales agreements with two financial institutions to sell up to 9,000,000 common shares of the Company from time to time in controlled at-the-market equity offerings. Sales of the common shares of the Company, if any, will depend on market conditions and other factors. The Company has no obligations to sell any common shares of the Company covered by the sales agreements and may terminate the sales agreements at any time. (20) Related Party Transactions In addition to related party transactions disclosed elsewhere, the Company was a party to the following related party transactions. All related party acquisitions, sales and loans were approved by the independent members of the Company’s Board of Trustees or the Audit Committee. Entities partially owned and controlled by the Company’s former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions provide property management services at certain properties and co-investments owned by the Company. These entities earned, including reimbursed expenses, $4,735, $5,136 and $3,693 respectively, for these services for the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007. On March 20, 2008, the Company entered into a Services and Non-Compete Agreement with its former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions and his affiliate, which provides that the Company’s former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions and his affiliate will provide the Company with certain asset management services in exchange for $1,500. The $1,500 is included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. 88 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) A mortgage note payable with an outstanding balance as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $3,808 and $4,102, respectively, is owed to an entity owned by significant shareholders and the former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions. The mortgage was assumed in connection with the merger with Newkirk. In addition, the Company leases four properties to entities owned by significant shareholders and/or the former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized $1,538, $1,575 and $1,575, respectively, in rental revenue from these properties. The Company leases its corporate office in New York City from an affiliate of Vornado Realty Trust, a significant shareholder. Rent expense for this property was $1,282, $865 and $829 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During 2007, the Company repurchased common shares from two of its officers for an aggregate of $405 and purchased LSAC shares from several of its officers for $2,200. Winthrop, an affiliate of the Company’s former Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Acquisitions, is the 50% partner in Lex-Win Concord (see note 9). In addition, the Company earns fees from certain of its non-consolidated investments (see note 9). The Company has an indemnity obligation to Vornado Realty Trust with respect to actions by the Company that affect Vornado Realty Trust’s status as a REIT. (21) Concentration of Risk The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependency on a single property and the creditworthiness of its tenants. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no tenant represented 10% or more of gross revenues. Cash and cash equivalent balances may exceed insurable amounts. The Company believes it mitigates risk by investing in or through major financial institutions. (22) Supplemental Disclosure of Statement of Cash Flow Information During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company paid $132,376, $160,134 and $154,917, respectively, for interest and $2,483, $767 and $3,452, respectively, for income taxes. In connection with the formation of NLS in 2008 and 2007, the Company contributed real estate and intangibles, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, of $90,200 and $129,427, respectively, to NLS. The Company’s contributed or sold properties to NLS with consolidated mortgage notes payable in the amount of $155,824 and $171,502, respectively, which were assumed by NLS. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, holders of an aggregate of 520,487, 34,377,989 and 1,283,629 OP units, respectively, redeemed such units for common shares of the Company. These redemptions resulted in increases in shareholders’ equity and corresponding decreases in noncontrolling interests of $3,580, $511,521 and $25,223, respectively. During 2009, the Company acquired the remainder interests in land with an estimated fair value of $2,500 in connection with a tenant's lease surrender obligation. During 2009, the Company conveyed three properties to lenders in full satisfaction of the aggregate $38,022 non-recourse mortgage notes payable. The Company recognized aggregate net gains on debt satisfaction of $13,180 relating to these transactions. During 2008, the Company assumed a $7,545 mortgage note payable in connection with a property acquisition. In 2008, the Company received land in a lease termination transaction with an appraised value of $16,000, which is included in non-operating income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 89 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) During 2008, the Company entered into a swap obligation with an initial value of $5,696, which was reflected as a reduction of mortgages payable and included in accounts payable and other liabilities. During 2008, the Company sold one property through foreclosure with a mortgage principal balance of $6,516 and an asset carrying value of $6,488. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company had a net increase (decrease) in the non-cash accruals for construction in progress, deferred leasing costs and deferred financing costs of $5,639, ($14,333) and $18,085, respectively. During 2008, the Company issued 1,620,879 common shares (with a value at issuance of $23,505) and cash of $5,432 to repurchase $32,500 of 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes. During 2007, the Company sold one property for a sale price of $35,700 and provided $27,700 in secured financing to the buyer. In connection with the acquisition of the co-investment programs in 2007, the Company paid approximately $366,600 in cash and acquired approximately $1,071,000 in real estate, $264,000 in intangibles, $21,000 in cash, assumed $785,000 in mortgages payable, $40,000 in below-market leases and $14,000 in all other assets and liabilities. (23) Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data 2009 3/31/2009 6/30/2009 9/30/2009 12/31/2009 Total gross revenues(1) $ 94,677 $ 96,646 $ 95,228 $ 90,070 Net loss $ (63,820 ) $ (76,393 ) $ (22,131 ) $ (48,928 ) Net loss attributable to common shareholders for earnings per share — basic $ (71,703 ) $ (90,450 ) $ (28,474 ) $ (52,249 ) Net loss attributable to common shareholders — per share: Basic and diluted $ (0.72 ) $ (0.87 ) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.43 ) 2008 3/31/2008 6/30/2008 9/30/2008 12/31/2008 Total gross revenues(1) $ 100,407 $ 121,619 $ 97,553 $ 98,570 Net income (loss) $ 11,937 $ 5,030 $ (4,439 ) $ (15,996 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders for earnings per share — basic $ (1,539 ) $ 13,815 $ (10,764 ) $ (20,486 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — per share: Basic $ (0.02 ) $ 0.23 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted $ (0.02 ) $ (0.06 ) $ (0.17 ) $ (0.23 ) (1) All periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact of properties sold during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and properties classified as held for sale, which are reflected in discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The sum of the quarterly income (loss) per common share amounts may not equal the full year amounts primarily because the computations of the weighted average number of common shares of the Company outstanding for each quarter and the full year are made independently. 90 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – (Continued) ($000 except per share/unit amounts) (24) Subsequent Events Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and in addition to any other events disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Company: - issued $115.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes. The notes pay interest semi-annually in arrears and mature on January 15, 2030. The holders of the notes may require the Company to repurchase their notes on January 15, 2017, January 15, 2020 and January 15, 2025 for cash equal to 100% of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The Company may not redeem any notes prior to January 15, 2017, except to preserve its REIT status. The notes have an initial conversion rate of 141.1383 common shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, representing a conversion price of approximately $7.09 per common share. The initial conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The notes are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances for cash, common shares or a combination of cash and common shares at the Company’s election. The notes are convertible prior to the close of business on the second business day immediately preceding the stated maturity date, at any time beginning on January 15, 2029 and also upon the occurrence of specified events; - repurchased $23,000 original principal amount of the 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes for $23,031 including accrued interest of $38; - sold three properties for gross cash proceeds of $1,800 and the purchasers of two properties assumed the corresponding mortgage notes ($40,162 at December 31, 2009); - made a 15%, $10,960 mortgage loan on an office building in Schaumberg, Illinois, which matures January 15, 2012, but can be extended one additional year by the borrower for a 50 basis point fee. The property is leased to Career Education Corporation from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2022 for an average annual rent of $3,968. In addition to the initial investment, the Company is obligated to lend an additional $7,575 over the two-year term of the mortgage upon the occurrence of certain events. If the borrower exercises the one-year extension option and certain other events occur, the Company will become obligated to lend an additional $12,199 for tenant improvement costs; - repaid $35,000 on the Company’s term loan under the Company’s secured credit facility, repaid all outstanding borrowings on the Company’s revolving loan under the Company’s secured credit facility and increased the availability under the revolving loan by $25,000; - made a $17,000 mezzanine loan secured by a combination of limited partner interests in entities that own, and second mortgage liens against, five medical facilities. The mezzanine loan is guaranteed by a parent entity and principal and matures in January 2012 and requires payments of interest only at a rate of 14% for the first year and 16% thereafter; - formed a joint venture with an unaffiliated third party to manage certain of the Company’s properties that require such property management services; and - purchased a parking lot in a sales/leaseback transaction with Nevada Power Company, an existing tenant, for $3,275 and financed the purchase with a $2,450 non-recourse note mortgage, which matures in September 2014, bears interest at 7.5% and has a 25 year amortization schedule. The parking lot is adjacent to the Company’s existing property in Las Vegas, Nevada, leased to Nevada Power Company. In connection with the transaction, the Nevada Power Company’s lease on the Company’s existing property has been extended from January 2014 to January 2029, the same expiration date as the parking lot lease. 91 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) Description Location Encumbrances Land, Improvements and Land Estates Buildings and Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Date Acquired Date Constructed Useful life computing depreciation in latest income statements (years) Industrial Marshall, MI (1) $ 0 $ 40 $ 900 $ 940 $ 567 Aug-87 1979 12, 20 & 40 Office/Warehouse Memphis, TN (1) 0 1,054 11,539 12,593 11,269 Feb-88 1987 8 &15 Office Tampa, FL 5,561 2,160 7,273 9,433 4,632 Jul-88 1986 9 - 40 Retail/Health Club Canton, OH 0 603 3,819 4,422 1,336 Dec-95 1987 40 Office Salt Lake City, UT 0 0 55,404 55,404 29,085 May-96 1982 26 Retail Honolulu, HI (1) 0 0 11,147 11,147 11,147 Dec-96 1980 5 Retail Tulsa, OK (1) 0 447 2,432 2,879 1,765 Dec-96 1981 14 & 24 Retail Clackamas, OR (1) 0 523 2,848 3,371 2,066 Dec-96 1981 14 & 24 Retail Lynnwood, WA (1) 0 488 2,658 3,146 1,929 Dec-96 1981 14 & 24 Warehouse New Kingston, PA 3,092 674 5,360 6,034 1,714 Mar-97 1981 40 Warehouse Mechanicsburg, PA 4,779 1,012 8,039 9,051 2,571 Mar-97 1985 40 Warehouse New Kingston, PA 6,490 1,380 10,963 12,343 3,506 Mar-97 1989 40 Office Decatur, GA 0 975 18,319 19,294 4,569 Dec-97 1983 3 - 40 Office Hebron, OH 0 1,063 4,271 5,334 859 Dec-97 2000 40 Office/Warehouse Bristol, PA 0 2,508 11,606 14,114 3,044 Mar-98 1982 10, 30 & 40 Office Hebron, KY (1) 0 1,615 8,125 9,740 2,516 Mar-98 1987 6, 12 & 40 Office Palm Beach Gardens, FL (1) 0 3,578 15,685 19,263 4,279 May-98 1996 11 - 40 Office Herndon, VA 17,553 5,127 22,610 27,737 5,212 Dec-99 1987 9, 31, 36 & 40 Office Hampton, VA 6,779 2,333 10,311 12,644 1,914 Mar-00 1999 2.5 & 40 Office Phoenix, AZ 18,068 4,666 19,966 24,632 5,094 May-00 1997 6 & 40 Retail Canton, OH (1) 0 884 3,534 4,418 718 Nov-01 1995 40 Retail Spartanburg, SC (1) 0 833 3,334 4,167 677 Nov-01 1996 40 Industrial Henderson, NC (1) 0 1,488 5,953 7,441 1,209 Nov-01 1998 40 Office Hampton, VA 4,162 1,353 5,441 6,794 1,332 Nov-01 2000 40 Retail Westland, MI 0 1,444 5,777 7,221 1,173 Nov-01 1987/1997 40 Office Phoenix, AZ (1) 0 2,287 22,117 24,404 3,596 Nov-01 1995/1994 5 - 40 Industrial Hebron, OH (1) 0 1,681 6,779 8,460 1,383 Dec-01 1999 5 & 40 Industrial Dillon, SC 22,056 3,223 26,054 29,277 4,925 Dec-01 2001/2005 22 & 40 Office Lake Forest, CA 10,055 3,442 13,769 17,211 2,682 Mar-02 2001 40 Office Fort Mill, SC 10,533 3,601 14,479 18,080 2,543 Dec-02 2002 5 & 40 Office Boca Raton, FL 20,400 4,290 17,160 21,450 2,949 Feb-03 1983/2002 40 Industrial Dubuque, IA 10,277 2,052 8,443 10,495 1,405 Jul-03 2002 11, 12 & 40 Office Wallingford, CT 3,261 1,049 4,198 5,247 634 Dec-03 1978/1985 40 Industrial Waxahachie, TX (1) 0 652 13,045 13,697 5,543 Dec-03 1996/1997 10, 16 & 40 Office Wall Township, NJ 28,098 8,985 26,961 35,946 6,263 Jan-04 1983 22 & 40 Industrial Moody, AL 6,974 654 9,943 10,597 3,069 Feb-04 2004 15 & 40 Office Sugar Land, TX 13,477 1,834 16,536 18,370 2,377 Mar-04 1997 40 Office Florence, SC (1) 0 3,235 12,941 16,176 2,568 May-04 1998 40 Office Clive, IA 5,611 2,761 7,453 10,214 2,493 Jun-04 2003 12, 13 & 40 Office Carrollton, TX 13,451 1,789 18,157 19,946 3,944 Jun-04 2003 19 & 40 Industrial High Point, NC (1) 0 1,330 11,183 12,513 2,711 Jul-04 2002 18 & 40 Office Southfield, MI (1) 0 0 12,124 12,124 4,236 Jul-04 1963/1965 7, 16 & 40 Industrial San Antonio, TX 27,631 2,482 38,535 41,017 10,127 Jul-04 2001 17 & 40 92 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) – (continued) Description Location Encumbrances Land, Improvements and Land Estates Buildings and Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Date Acquired Date Constructed Useful life computing depreciation in latest income statements (years) Office Fort Mill, SC 19,690 1,798 25,192 26,990 7,161 Nov-04 2004 15 & 40 Office Foxboro, MA 13,750 2,231 25,653 27,884 6,552 Dec-04 1982 16 & 40 Industrial Olive Branch, MS (1) 0 198 10,276 10,474 3,831 Dec-04 1989 8, 15 & 40 Office Los Angeles, CA 10,898 5,110 10,911 16,021 3,252 Dec-04 2000 13 & 40 Industrial Knoxville, TN 7,407 1,079 10,762 11,841 2,741 Mar-05 2001 14 & 40 Industrial Millington, TN 16,896 723 19,118 19,841 4,518 Apr-05 1997 16 & 40 Office Fort Meyers, FL 8,912 1,820 10,198 12,018 2,857 Apr-05 1997 13 & 40 Office Harrisburg, PA 8,687 900 10,556 11,456 4,185 Apr-05 1998 9 & 40 Office Indianapolis, IN 12,482 1,700 16,601 18,301 5,956 Apr-05 1999 5, 10 & 40 Office Tulsa, OK 7,282 2,126 8,493 10,619 3,000 Apr-05 2000 11 & 40 Office Houston, TX 16,753 3,750 21,149 24,899 5,925 Apr-05 2000 13 & 40 Office Houston, TX 16,075 800 24,696 25,496 7,246 Apr-05 2000 11, 12 & 40 Office San Antonio, TX 12,400 2,800 14,587 17,387 4,797 Apr-05 2000 11 & 40 Office Richmond, VA 10,073 1,100 11,919 13,019 2,997 Apr-05 2000 15 & 40 Office Suwannee, GA 11,325 3,200 10,903 14,103 3,275 Apr-05 2001 12 & 40 Office Indianapolis, IN 9,127 1,360 13,150 14,510 3,758 Apr-05 2002 12 & 40 Office Lakewood, CO 8,238 1,400 8,653 10,053 2,571 Apr-05 2002 12 & 40 Office Atlanta, GA 42,883 4,600 55,333 59,933 15,157 Apr-05 2003 13 & 40 Office Houston, TX 12,557 1,500 14,581 16,081 3,732 Apr-05 2003 14 & 40 Office Philadelphia, PA 47,309 13,209 51,104 64,313 13,146 Jun-05 1957 5 - 40 Industrial Dry Ridge, KY 6,463 560 12,553 13,113 1,963 Jun-05 1988 25 & 40 Industrial Elizabethtown, KY 2,846 352 4,862 5,214 760 Jun-05 2001 25 & 40 Industrial Elizabethtown, KY 15,084 890 26,868 27,758 4,202 Jun-05 1995/2001 25 & 40 Industrial Owensboro, KY 5,743 393 11,956 12,349 2,004 Jun-05 1998/2000 25 & 40 Industrial Hopkinsville, KY 8,842 631 16,154 16,785 2,575 Jun-05 Various 25 & 40 Office Southington, CT 13,028 3,240 25,339 28,579 13,003 Nov-05 1983 12, 28 & 40 Office Omaha, NE 8,550 2,566 8,324 10,890 1,044 Nov-05 1995 30 & 40 Office Tempe, AZ 8,075 0 9,442 9,442 1,161 Dec-05 1998 30 & 40 Industrial Collierville, TN (1) 0 714 2,483 3,197 414 Dec-05 2005 20 & 40 Industrial Crossville, TN (1) 0 545 6,999 7,544 1,395 Jan-06 1989/2006 17 & 40 Office Renswoude, Netherlands 36,354 2,835 25,698 28,533 4,698 Jan-06 1994/2003 17 & 40 Office Memphis, TN 3,903 464 4,467 4,931 576 Nov-06 1888 20 & 40 Office Charleston, SC 7,350 1,189 8,724 9,913 1,187 Nov-06 2006 40 Office Hanover, NJ 16,030 4,063 19,711 23,774 2,534 Nov-06 2006 20 & 40 Retail, Office, Garage Honolulu, HI (1) 0 21,094 13,217 34,311 987 Dec-06 1917/1955/1960/1980 40 Office Orlando, FL 9,975 3,538 9,019 12,557 1,720 Jan-07 2003 12 & 40 Office Westlake, TX 18,495 2,361 22,396 24,757 3,527 May-07 2007 5 & 40 Industrial Antioch, TN 13,418 5,568 16,871 22,439 2,141 May-07 1983 5 - 40 Office Canonsburg, PA 9,076 1,055 10,910 11,965 1,634 May-07 1997 8 & 40 Retail Galesburg, IL 651 560 2,366 2,926 271 May-07 1992 12 & 40 Retail Lewisburg, WV 766 501 1,985 2,486 163 May-07 1993 12 & 40 Retail Lorain, OH 1,642 1,893 7,024 8,917 648 May-07 1993 23 & 40 Retail Manteca, CA 1,160 2,082 6,464 8,546 594 May-07 1993 23 & 40 Retail San Diego, CA 740 0 13,310 13,310 933 May-07 1993 23 & 40 93 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) – (continued) Description Location Encumbrances Land, Improvements and Land Estates Buildings and Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Date Acquired Date Constructed Useful life computing depreciation in latest income statements (years) Retail Watertown, NY 1,090 386 5,162 5,548 517 May-07 1993 23 & 40 Office Irving, TX 38,501 7,476 42,780 50,256 6,513 May-07 1999 6 & 40 Office Baton Rouge, LA 6,265 1,252 10,244 11,496 1,370 May-07 1997 6 & 40 Office Centenial, CO 14,687 4,851 15,187 20,038 2,302 May-07 2001 10 & 40 Office Overland Park, KS 37,242 4,769 41,956 46,725 4,605 Jun-07 1980 12 & 40 Office Carrollton, TX 20,080 3,427 22,050 25,477 2,757 Jun-07 2003 8 & 40 Industrial Durham, NH 18,866 3,464 18,094 21,558 1,955 Jun-07 1986 40 Office Dallas, TX 18,526 3,984 27,308 31,292 3,347 Jun-07 2002 40 Office Farmington Hills, MI 18,853 4,876 21,115 25,991 3,244 Jun-07 1999 10 & 40 Office Kansas City, MO 17,751 2,433 20,154 22,587 2,200 Jun-07 1980 12 & 40 Industrial Streetsboro, OH 19,209 2,441 25,092 27,533 2,521 Jun-07 2004 12, 20, 25 & 40 Office Issaquah, WA 31,890 5,126 13,554 18,680 2,045 Jun-07 1987 8 & 40 Office Issaquah, WA 0 6,268 16,058 22,326 2,351 Jun-07 1987 8 & 40 Office Louisville, CO 7,419 3,657 9,605 13,262 522 Sep-08 1987 8, 9 & 40 Fitness Center Baltimore, MD 0 0 104 104 2 Nov-09 2009 7 Office Lenexa, KS (1) 0 6,909 29,032 35,941 1,282 Jul-08 2007 15 & 40 Industrial Saugerties, NY (1) 0 508 2,837 3,345 220 Dec-06 1979 40 Industrial Owensboro, KY (1) 0 819 2,439 3,258 395 Dec-06 1975 40 Industrial Memphis, TN (1) 0 1,553 12,326 13,879 1,137 Dec-06 1973 40 Industrial N. Myrtle Beach, SC 0 0 0 0 - Dec-06 1983 40 Industrial Long Beach, CA (3) 0 5,888 7,802 13,690 654 Dec-06 1981 40 Industrial Lumberton, NC (1) 0 405 12,049 12,454 1,163 Dec-06 1998 40 Industrial McDonough, GA 23,000 2,463 24,291 26,754 1,896 Dec-06 2000 40 Industrial Columbus, OH (1) 0 1,990 10,580 12,570 1,044 Dec-06 1973 40 Office Palo Alto, CA (1) 0 12,398 16,977 29,375 6,661 Dec-06 1974 40 Industrial Rockford, IL 0 371 2,573 2,944 227 Dec-06 1998 40 Industrial Rockford, IL 6,799 509 5,289 5,798 435 Dec-06 1992 40 Industrial North Berwick, ME (1) 0 1,383 32,397 33,780 2,489 Dec-06 1965 10 & 40 Industrial Statesville, NC 13,893 891 16,494 17,385 1,913 Dec-06 1999 40 Industrial Orlando, FL (1) 0 1,030 10,869 11,899 919 Dec-06 1981 40 Industrial Cincinnati, OH (1) 0 1,009 7,007 8,016 637 Dec-06 1991 40 Industrial Shreveport, LA 19,000 860 21,840 22,700 1,524 Mar-07 2006 40 Industrial Duncan, SC (1) 0 884 8,626 9,510 569 Jun-07 2005 40 Industrial Laurens, SC 15,386 5,552 20,886 26,438 2,397 Jun-07 1991 40 Industrial Winchester, VA 10,126 3,823 12,226 16,049 1,500 Jun-07 2001 40 Industrial Temperance, MI 10,314 3,040 14,738 17,778 1,650 Jun-07 1980 40 Industrial Logan, NJ 7,168 1,825 10,776 12,601 973 Jun-07 1998 40 Industrial Plymouth, MI 11,170 2,296 13,398 15,694 2,200 Jun-07 1996 40 Retail, Garage Baltimore, MD 0 0 23,333 23,333 339 May-09 2009 40 Land Baltimore, MD 0 4,605 0 4,605 - Dec-06 N/A N/A Office Clinton, CT 0 285 4,043 4,328 632 Dec-06 1971 40 Office Irvine, CA 0 4,758 37,674 42,432 5,220 Dec-06 1983 7 - 40 Office Lisle, IL 10,279 3,236 13,667 16,903 1,352 Dec-06 1985 40 Office Dallas, TX 0 4,042 17,484 21,526 1,564 Dec-06 1981 5, 7 & 40 94 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) – (continued) Description Location Encumbrances Land, Improvements and Land Estates Buildings and Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Date Acquired Date Constructed Useful life computing depreciation in latest income statements (years) Office Bridgewater, NJ 14,805 4,738 27,331 32,069 2,173 Dec-06 1986 40 Office Pleasanton, CA 3,808 0 0 0 - Dec-06 1984 40 Office San Francisco, CA 19,924 10,244 26,810 37,054 2,802 Dec-06 1959 40 Office Colorado Springs, CO 0 1,018 2,459 3,477 277 Dec-06 1982 40 Office Bridgeton, MO (1) 0 1,853 4,469 6,322 377 Dec-06 1980 40 Office Glenwillow, OH 16,746 2,228 24,530 26,758 2,003 Dec-06 1996 40 Office Columbus, IN (2) 25,831 235 45,729 45,964 3,421 Dec-06 1983 40 Office Johnson City, TN (1) 0 1,214 7,568 8,782 635 Dec-06 1983 40 Office Memphis, TN (2) 46,253 5,291 97,032 102,323 7,581 Dec-06 1985 40 Office Orlando, FL (1) 0 586 35,012 35,598 2,725 Dec-06 1982 40 Office Long Beach, CA (3) 0 21,092 71,772 92,864 5,782 Dec-06 1981 4, 9, 10 & 40 Office Little Rock, AR (1) 0 1,353 2,260 3,613 203 Dec-06 1980 40 Office Baltimore, MD 0 32,959 82,310 115,269 23,268 Dec-06 1973 10 & 40 Office Rockaway, NJ 14,900 4,646 20,428 25,074 1,944 Dec-06 2002 40 Office Orlando, FL 0 11,498 33,671 45,169 4,802 Dec-06 1984 40 Office Beaumont, TX (1) 0 30 27,311 27,341 2,430 Dec-06 1983 3 - 40 Office Rochester, NY 18,524 645 25,892 26,537 2,106 Dec-06 1988 40 Office Las Vegas, NV (2) 31,427 8,824 53,164 61,988 4,076 Dec-06 1982 40 Office Boston, MA 13,535 3,814 14,728 18,542 1,028 Mar-07 1910 40 Office Westerville, OH (1) 0 2,085 9,265 11,350 872 May-07 2000 40 Office Brea, CA 76,435 37,269 45,695 82,964 7,018 Jun-07 1983 40 Office Houston, TX 51,989 16,613 52,682 69,295 7,573 Mar-04 1976/1984 40 Office Fishers, IN 11,493 2,808 19,039 21,847 2,885 Jun-07 1999 10, 38 & 40 Office Irving, TX 25,036 4,889 29,598 34,487 4,353 Jun-07 1999 40 Office Milford, OH 14,541 3,124 15,990 19,114 2,734 Jun-07 1991 7 & 40 Office Lake Mary, FL 12,367 4,535 14,701 19,236 2,342 Jun-07 1997 7 & 40 Office Lake Mary, FL 12,360 4,438 14,957 19,395 2,275 Jun-07 1999 7 & 40 Office Parisppany, NJ 38,260 7,478 84,051 91,529 10,924 Jun-07 2000 40 Office Colorado Springs, CO 10,970 2,748 12,554 15,302 1,629 Jun-07 1980 40 Office Herndon, VA 11,558 9,409 12,853 22,262 2,036 Jun-07 1987 40 Office Chicago, IL 29,201 5,155 46,180 51,335 6,510 Jun-07 1986 15 & 40 Office Glen Allen, VA 19,561 2,361 29,362 31,723 5,441 Jun-07 1998 6, 10 & 40 Office Cary, NC 12,727 5,342 14,866 20,208 2,469 Jun-07 1999 40 Other Sun City, AZ (1) 0 2,154 2,775 4,929 213 Dec-06 1982 40 Other Carlsbad, NM (1) 0 918 775 1,693 75 Dec-06 1980 40 Other Corpus Christi, TX (1) 0 987 974 1,961 78 Dec-06 1983 40 Other El Paso, TX (1) 0 220 1,749 1,969 136 Dec-06 1982 40 Other McAllen, TX (1) 0 606 1,257 1,863 99 Dec-06 2004 40 Other Victoria, TX (1) 0 300 1,149 1,449 91 Dec-06 1981 40 Retail Florence, AL (1) 0 862 3,747 4,609 284 Dec-06 1983 40 Retail Chattanooga, TN (1) 0 556 1,241 1,797 105 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Paris, TN (1) 0 247 547 794 61 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Carrollton, TX (1) 0 2,262 1,085 3,347 150 Dec-06 1984 40 Office Atlanta, GA (1) 0 1,014 269 1,283 107 Dec-06 1972 40 95 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) – (continued) Description Location Encumbrances Land, Improvements and Land Estates Buildings and Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Date Acquired Date Constructed Useful life computing depreciation in latest income statements (years) Office Atlanta, GA (1) 0 870 187 1,057 85 Dec-06 1975 40 Office Chamblee, GA (1) 0 770 186 956 97 Dec-06 1972 40 Office Cumming, GA (1) 0 1,558 1,368 2,926 229 Dec-06 1968 40 Office Duluth, GA (1) 0 660 1,014 1,674 135 Dec-06 1971 40 Office Forest Park, GA (1) 0 668 1,242 1,910 163 Dec-06 1969 40 Office Jonesboro, GA (1) 0 778 146 924 75 Dec-06 1971 40 Office Stone Mountain, GA (1) 0 672 276 948 79 Dec-06 1973 40 Retail Thomasville, NC (1) 0 610 1,861 2,471 141 Dec-06 1998 40 Retail Lawrence, IN (1) 0 404 1,737 2,141 140 Dec-06 1983 40 Retail Franklin, OH (1) 0 1,089 1,699 2,788 129 Dec-06 1961 40 Retail Houston, TX (1) 0 1,336 5,183 6,519 500 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Dallas, TX (1) 0 1,637 5,381 7,018 628 Dec-06 1960 40 Retail Port Richey, FL 0 1,376 1,664 3,040 228 Dec-06 1980 40 Retail Billings, MT (1) 0 506 3,062 3,568 331 Dec-06 1981 40 Retail Fort Worth, TX (1) 0 1,003 3,304 4,307 385 Dec-06 1985 40 Retail Greenville, TX (1) 0 562 2,743 3,305 252 Dec-06 1985 40 Retail Lawton, OK (1) 0 663 1,288 1,951 148 Dec-06 1984 40 Retail Jacksonville, NC 0 1,151 221 1,372 45 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Jefferson, NC (1) 0 71 884 955 77 Dec-06 1979 40 Retail Lexington, NC (1) 0 832 1,429 2,261 108 Dec-06 1983 40 Retail Moncks Corner, SC (1) 0 13 1,510 1,523 122 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Staunton, VA (1) 0 1,028 326 1,354 53 Dec-06 1971 40 Retail Montgomery, AL 0 0 0 0 - Dec-06 1980 40 Retail Port Orchard, WA 0 2,167 1,399 3,566 316 Dec-06 1983 40 Retail Minden, LA (1) 0 334 4,888 5,222 369 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Garland, TX (1) 0 905 3,448 4,353 715 Dec-06 1983 40 Retail Hillsboro, TX (1) 0 139 1,581 1,720 130 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Portchester, NY (1) 0 7,086 9,313 16,399 1,405 Dec-06 1982 40 Retail Tallahassee, FL (1) 0 0 3,700 3,700 278 Dec-06 1980 40 Retail Edmonds, WA (1) 0 0 3,947 3,947 285 Dec-06 1981 40 Construction in progress 12,327 12,327 Subtotal 1,629,008 577,371 2,975,435 3,552,806 537,406 (1) 171,348 (2) 25,000 (4) 32,553 Total $ 1,857,909 $ 577,371 $ 2,975,435 $ 3,552,806 $ 537,406 (1) – Properties are collateral for a $164,348 secured term loan and a $7,000 secured revolving loan. (2) – Properties are collateral for a $25,000 secured term loan. (3) – Properties are encumbered by a $15,252 contract right payable. (4) – Certain equity interests are pledged as collateral for a term loan. 96 LEXINGTON REALTY TRUST AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization Schedule III ($000) – (continued) (A) The initial cost includes the purchase price paid by the Company and acquisition fees and expenses. The total cost basis of the Company’s properties at December 31, 2009 for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.9 billion. 2009 2008 2007 Reconciliation of real estate owned: Balance at the beginning of year $ 3,756,188 $ 4,109,097 $ 3,751,202 Merger basis reallocation — — 8,235 Additions during year 42,818 101,038 146,25