Item 1A. Risk FactorsSet forth below are material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to risks involved in single-tenant leases.We focus our acquisition activities on real properties that are net leased to single tenants. Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a significant reduction in the operating cash flow generated by the property leased to that tenant and might decrease the value of that property. In addition, our property owner subsidiary will be responsible for 100% of the operating costs following a vacancy at a single-tenant building. We rely on revenues derived from major tenants.Revenues from several tenants and/or their guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our base rental revenues. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of the tenants and/or guarantors of these properties could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenues and/or result in vacancies, which would reduce the property owner subsidiary's revenues and increase operating costs until the affected property is re-let, and could decrease the ultimate sale value of that property. Upon the expiration or other termination of the leases that are currently in place with respect to these properties, the property owner subsidiary may not be able to re-lease the vacant property at a comparable lease rate, at all, or without incurring additional expenditures in connection with the re-leasing. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Overview - Leasing Trends” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for further discussion.Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.We periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on generally accepted accounting principles, which include a variety of factors such as market conditions, the status of significant leases, the financial condition of major tenants and other factors that could affect the cash flow or value of an investment. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred $117.4 million, $56.9 million and $175.9 million, respectively, of non-cash impairment charges. A substantial portion of these impairments related to assets acquired in the Newkirk Merger that have a high cost basis because of our common share price at the time of the Newkirk Merger. In addition, we may continue to take similar non-cash impairment charges, which could affect the implementation of our current business strategy. These impairments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our interests in loans receivable are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss.Our interests in loans receivable are generally non-recourse and secured by real estate properties owned by borrowers that were unable to obtain similar financing from a commercial bank. These loans are subject to risks of delinquency as well as risk associated with the capital markets. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a real estate property is typically and primarily dependent upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If a borrower were to default on a loan, it is possible that the lender subsidiary would not recover the full value of the loan and the collateral may be non-performing. In 2011, one of our lender subsidiaries received a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure on an office property in Wilsonville, Oregon, which the tenant vacated in 2010. The loan had an outstanding principal balance of $10.6 million, which we believe was above the fair value of the property, and accordingly we incurred an impairment charge in 2010 of $3.8 million relating to this loan.We face uncertainties relating to lease renewals and re-letting of space.Upon the expiration of current leases for space located in properties in which we have an interest, our property owner subsidiary may not be able to re-let all or a portion of that space, or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants and leasing commissions) may be less favorable to our property owner subsidiary than current lease terms or market rates. If our property owner subsidiaries are unable to promptly re-let all or a substantial portion of the space located in their respective properties, or if the rental rates a property owner subsidiary receives upon re-letting are significantly lower than current rates, our earnings and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected due to the resulting reduction in rent receipts and increase in our property owner subsidiary's property operating costs. There can be no assurance that our property owner subsidiaries will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of leases.12Our inability to carry out our growth strategy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy is based on the acquisition and development of additional properties and related assets, including acquisitions of large portfolios and real estate companies and acquisitions through co-investment programs and joint ventures. In the context of our business plan, “development” generally means an expansion or renovation of an existing property or the financing and/or acquisition of a newly constructed build-to-suit property. We may provide a developer with either a combination of (1) financing for construction of a build-to-suit property, or (2) a commitment to acquire a property upon completion of construction of a build-to-suit property and commencement of rent from the tenant. In addition, we may acquire a property subject to a lease and engage a developer to complete construction of a build-to-suit property as required by the lease. Our plan to grow through the acquisition and development of new properties could be adversely affected by trends in the real estate and financing businesses. The consummation of any future acquisitions will be subject to satisfactory completion of an extensive valuation analysis and due diligence review and to the negotiation of definitive documentation. Our ability to implement our strategy may be impeded because we may have difficulty finding new properties and investments at attractive prices that meet our investment criteria, negotiating with new or existing tenants or securing acceptable financing. If we are unable to carry out our strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Acquisitions of additional properties entail the risk that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations, including operating and leasing expectations. Redevelopment and new project development are subject to numerous risks, including risks of construction delays, cost overruns or force majeure events that may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such as the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits, and the incurrence of development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion. Some of our acquisitions and developments may be financed using the proceeds of periodic equity or debt offerings, lines of credit or other forms of secured or unsecured financing that may result in a risk that permanent financing for newly acquired projects might not be available or would be available only on disadvantageous terms. If permanent debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms to refinance acquisitions undertaken without permanent financing, further acquisitions may be curtailed, or cash available for distribution to shareholders may be adversely affected.Acquisition activities may not produce expected results and may be affected by outside factors.We intend to continue to acquire core properties. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail certain risks, such as (1) occupancy, rental rates and expenses may differ from estimates, (2) the properties may become subject to environmental liabilities that we were unaware of at the time we acquired the property despite any environmental testing, (3) we may have difficulty obtaining financing on acceptable terms or paying the operating expenses and debt service associated with acquired properties prior to sufficient occupancy and (4) projected exit strategies may not come to fruition due to a variety of factors such as market conditions at time of dispositions.We may not be successful in identifying suitable real estate properties or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria, or we may fail to complete acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms. Failure to identify or complete acquisitions could slow our growth, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We face certain risks associated with our build-to-suit activities.From time to time, we engage in, or provide capital to developers who are engaged in, build-to-suit activities. We face uncertainties, associated with a developer's performance and timely completion of a project. If a developer fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to compel performance, remove the developer or rescind the purchase or construction contract. A developer's performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the developer's control. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to developers before completion of construction. These and other factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. We also rely on third-party construction managers and/or engineers to monitor the construction activities.We rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of a property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a purchase price at the time we acquire the property, which may be up to two years prior to the estimated date of completion. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay more than the fair value of a property.Our multi-tenant properties expose us to additional risks.Our multi-tenant properties involve risks not typically encountered in real estate properties which are operated by a single tenant. The ownership of multi-tenant properties could expose us to the risk that a sufficient number of suitable tenants may not be found to enable the property to operate profitably and provide a return to us. This risk may be compounded by the failure of existing tenants to satisfy their obligations due to various factors, including the current economic crisis. These risks, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact to our results of operations and business.13Multi-tenant properties are also subject to tenant turnover and fluctuation in occupancy rates, which could affect our operating results. Multi-tenant properties also expose us to the risk of potential "CAM slippage," which may occur when the actual cost of taxes, insurance and maintenance at the property exceeds the operating expenses paid by tenants.We are highly leveraged, which increases risk of default on our obligations and debt service requirements.We are more leveraged than certain of our competitors. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, direct and indirect indebtedness in furtherance of our activities. Neither our amended and restated declaration of trust nor any policy statement formally adopted by our Board of Trustees limits either the total amount of indebtedness or the specified percentage of indebtedness that we may incur, and accordingly, we could become even more highly leveraged. High levels of leverage may result in an increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions.Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our borrowing costs, profitability and our share price.We have exposure to market risks relating to increases in interest rates due to our variable-rate debt. An increase in interest rates may increase our costs of borrowing on existing variable-rate indebtedness, leading to a reduction in our earnings. As of December 31, 2011, we had no amounts outstanding in consolidated variable-rate indebtedness that were not subject to an interest-rate swap agreement. However, borrowings under our new secured revolving credit facility and new secured term loan are subject to variable rates. Effective February 1, 2012, we entered into an interest-rate swap agreement to fix LIBOR at 1.512% on $108.0 million of borrowings under the new secured term loan. The level of our variable-rate indebtedness, along with the interest rate associated with such variable-rate indebtedness, may change in the future and materially affect our interest costs and earnings. In addition, our interest costs on our fixed-rate indebtedness may increase if we are required to refinance our fixed-rate indebtedness upon maturity at higher interest rates.Furthermore, the public valuation of our common shares is related primarily to the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to the properties in which we have an interest and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, the market price of our common shares may decrease because potential investors seeking a higher dividend yield than they would receive from our common shares may sell our common shares in favor of higher rate interest-bearing securities.Continued disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us.Since 2008, the United States credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of capital or difficulties in obtaining capital. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common shares or preferred shares. These disruptions in the financial markets may have other adverse effects on us or the economy in general.In addition to the interest rate swap agreement on $108.0 million of borrowing under our new secured term loan, we have interest rate swap agreements through our investment in CDH CDO. The counterparties of these arrangements are major financial institutions; however, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties. The trading price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations.Since January 1, 2008, the closing sale price of our common shares on the New York Stock Exchange (composite) has ranged from $17.22 to $2.01 per share. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate in response to company-specific and securities market events and developments including those described in this Annual Report. In addition, the amount of our indebtedness may impact investor demand for our common shares, which could have a material effect on the market price of our common shares.14We have engaged and may engage in hedging transactions that may limit gains or result in losses.We have used derivatives to hedge certain of our liabilities. This has certain risks, including losses on a hedge position, which have in the past and may in the future reduce the return on our investments. Such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. In addition, counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations. We may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, related to hedging transactions.We face risks associated with refinancings.A significant number of the properties in which we have an interest, as well as corporate-level borrowings, are subject to mortgage or other secured notes with balloon payments due at maturity. As of December 31, 2011, the consolidated scheduled balloon payments, for the next five calendar years, are as follows:Year Non-Recourse Property-Specific Balloon Payments Corporate Recourse Balloon Payments(3)2012 (1) $147.9 million $62.2 million 2013 (2) $234.9 million $60.6 million 2014 $229.1 million $—2015 $268.8 million $—2016 $121.9 million $—(1) Includes 5.45% Exchangeable Guaranteed Notes due in January 2027 which were repurchased and retired in January 2012 pursuant to a holder repurchase option.(2) Includes corporate recourse balloon payments satisfied subsequent to December 31, 2011.(3) Balances were retired with borrowings from our secured term loan and secured revolving credit facility obtained in 2012.The ability to make the scheduled balloon payment on a non-recourse mortgage note will depend upon (1) in the event we determine to contribute capital, our cash balances and the amount available under our secured term loan and secured revolving credit facility and (2) the property owner subsidiary's ability either to refinance the related mortgage debt or to sell the related property. If the property owner subsidiary is unable to refinance or sell the related property, the property may be conveyed to the lender through foreclosure or the property owner subsidiary may declare bankruptcy. The failure to pay the balloon payment may strain relationships with lenders.We face risks associated with returning properties to lenders.A significant number of the properties in which we have an interest are subject to non-recourse mortgages, which generally provide that a lender can only look to the property in the event of a default. During January 2012, a lender foreclosed on a vacant property in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in which we had an interest and during 2009, lenders foreclosed on vacant properties located in Richmond, Virginia and Plymouth, Michigan, in which we had an interest, because the property owner subsidiaries were unable to pay the required debt service. In 2009, a vacant property in Houston, Texas was disposed of in the bankruptcy of the property owner subsidiary because the property owner subsidiary was unable to pay the required debt service. As a result, we lost all of our interest in these properties and any future opportunities to re-tenant these properties. The loss of a significant number of properties to foreclosure or bankruptcy could adversely affect our (1) financial condition and results of operations, (2) relationships with lenders and (3) ability to obtain additional financing in the future.In addition, in instances not involving us, there are at least two cases in Michigan where a lender has been successful (at the trial court level in one case and at the trial court and appeals court level in the other case) in triggering a carve out to the non-recourse nature of a mortgage loan because the value of the property declined below the balance of the mortgage. While we believe this goes against the express intention of a non-recourse mortgage loan, to the extent these cases are not overturned or superseded by legislation, the ability of our property owner subsidiaries to return properties to lenders may be inhibited and we may be liable for all or a portion of such losses.15 Certain of our properties are cross-collateralized, and certain of our indebtedness is cross-defaulted. As of December 31, 2011, the mortgages on three sets of two properties, one set of three properties and one set of four properties are cross-collateralized. In addition, (1) our new secured revolving credit facility and our new secured term loan are secured by ownership interest pledges in a borrowing base of properties, (2) our $45.0 million original principal amount secured term loan (of which $35.6 million was outstanding at December 31, 2011 and all of which was satisfied in January 2012) was secured by pledges of interests in a borrowing base of interests in certain properties and (3) our $25.0 million secured term loan (all of which was satisfied in January 2012) was secured by pledges of interests in three properties. To the extent that any of the properties in which we have an interest are cross-collateralized, any default by the property owner subsidiary under the mortgage note relating to one property will result in a default under the financing arrangements relating to any other property that also provides security for that mortgage note or is cross-collateralized with such mortgage note.In addition, our new secured revolving credit facility, new secured term loan, and 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes contain cross-default provisions, which may be triggered if we default on indebtedness in excess of certain thresholds.We face possible liability relating to environmental matters.Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, as an owner of real property, our property owner subsidiaries may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, in or under the properties in which we have an interest as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. These liabilities may include government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. These laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence or disposal of those substances. This liability may be imposed on our property owner subsidiaries in connection with the activities of an operator of, or tenant at, the property. The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could be significant and could exceed the value of the property and/or our aggregate assets. In addition, the presence of those substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remove those substances, may adversely affect a property owner subsidiary's ability to sell or rent that property or to borrow using that property as collateral, which, in turn, would reduce our revenues and ability to make distributions. A property can also be adversely affected either through physical contamination or by virtue of an adverse effect upon value attributable to the migration of hazardous or toxic substances, or other contaminants that have or may have emanated from other properties. Although the tenants of the properties in which we have an interest are primarily responsible for any environmental damages and claims related to the leased premises, in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of any of the tenants of the properties in which we have an interest to satisfy any obligations with respect to the property leased to that tenant, our property owner subsidiary may be required to satisfy such obligations. In addition, we may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims irrespective of the provisions of any lease. From time to time, in connection with the conduct of our business, our property owner subsidiaries authorize the preparation of Phase I environmental reports and, when necessary, Phase II environmental reports, with respect to their properties. There can be no assurance that these environmental reports will reveal all environmental conditions at the properties in which we have an interest or that the following will not expose us to material liability in the future: •the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions;•changes in law;•activities of tenants; or•activities relating to properties in the vicinity of the properties in which we have an interest. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise adversely affect the operations of the tenants of the properties in which we have an interest, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.16From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business.Legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business require time and effort. The outcomes of legal proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty. Certain legal proceedings that we are currently involved in are described in note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. In the event that we are unsuccessful defending or prosecuting these proceedings, as applicable, we may incur a judgment or fail to realize an award of damages that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Uninsured losses or a loss in excess of insured limits could adversely affect our financial condition.We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance on most of the properties in which we have an interest, with policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar properties. However, with respect to those properties where the leases do not provide for abatement of rent under any circumstances, we generally do not maintain rent loss insurance. In addition, certain of our leases require the tenant to maintain all insurance on the property, and the failure of the tenant to maintain the proper insurance could adversely impact our investment in a property in the event of a loss. Furthermore, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, terrorism or certain acts of God, that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in a property as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Future terrorist attacks, military conflicts and unrest in the Middle East could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and market liquidity.The types of terrorist attacks since 2001, on-going and future military conflicts and the continued unrest in the Middle East may affect commodity prices and interest rates, among other things. An increase in interest rates may increase our costs of borrowing, leading to a reduction in our earnings. The increase in the price of oil will cause an increase in our operating costs, which may not be reimbursed by our tenants. Also, terrorist acts could also result in significant damages to, or loss of, our properties or the value thereof. We and the tenants of the properties in which we have an interest may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable economic terms for losses resulting from acts of terrorism. Our lenders may require that we carry terrorism insurance even if we do not believe this insurance is necessary or cost effective. We may also be prohibited under the applicable lease from passing all or a portion of the cost of such insurance through to the tenant. Should an act of terrorism result in an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose capital invested in a property as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types could adversely affect our financial condition.Competition may adversely affect our ability to purchase properties.There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial and other resources than we have that compete with us in seeking investments and tenants. Due to our focus on net-lease properties located throughout the United States, and because most competitors are often locally and/or regionally focused, we do not always encounter the same competitors in each market. Our competitors include other REITs, financial institutions, insurance companies, pension funds, private companies and individuals. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties and lower returns and impact our ability to grow.Our failure to maintain effective internal control could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and share price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, as such standards may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal control, particularly related to revenue recognition, is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and to maintain our qualification as a REIT and is important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our shares could drop significantly.17We may have limited control over our co-investment programs and joint venture investments.Our co-investment programs and joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our partner might, at any time, become bankrupt, have different interests or goals than we do, or take action contrary to our expectations, its previous instructions or our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Other risks of co-investment program and joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor our partner has full control over the co-investment program or joint venture. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in co-investment programs and joint ventures.Two of our co-investment programs, Concord and CDH CDO, are owned equally by our subsidiaries, Winthrop and Inland Concord. Material actions taken by Concord and CDH CDO require the consent of each of co-investment partner. Accordingly, Concord and CDH CDO may not take certain actions or invest in certain assets even if we believe it to be in its best interest. Another co-investment program, NLS, is managed by an Executive Committee comprised of three persons appointed by us and two persons appointed by our partner. With few exceptions, the affirmative vote of four members of the Executive Committee is required to conduct business. Accordingly, we do not control the business decisions of this co-investment program. Certain of our trustees and officers may face conflicts of interest with respect to sales and refinancings. E. Robert Roskind, our Chairman, beneficially owns a significant number of OP units, and as a result, may face different and more adverse tax consequences than our other shareholders will if we sell our interests in certain properties or reduce mortgage indebtedness on certain properties. Our Chairman may, therefore, have different objectives than our other shareholders regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale of such properties or reduction of mortgage debt.Accordingly, there may be instances in which we may not sell a property or pay down the debt on a property even though doing so would be advantageous to our other shareholders. In the event of an appearance of a conflict of interest, the conflicted trustee or officer is required to recuse himself or herself from any decision making or seek a waiver of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are illiquid. Equity investments in real estate are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changed conditions is limited. Our Board of Trustees may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number or type of properties in which we may seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. There can be no assurance that we will remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993, and we intend to continue to meet these requirements in the future. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. No assurance can be given that we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. The Code provisions and income tax regulations applicable to REITs are more complex than those applicable to corporations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our net taxable income. In addition, our income would be subject to tax at the regular corporate rates. We also could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. Cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be significantly reduced or suspended for each year in which we do not qualify as a REIT. In that event, we would not be required to continue to make distributions. Although we currently intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us, without the consent of the shareholders, to revoke the REIT election or to otherwise take action that would result in disqualification. 18We may be subject to the REIT prohibited transactions tax, which could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liability to us.In 2007 we announced a restructuring of our investment strategy, focusing on core assets. A REIT will incur a 100% tax on the net income from a prohibited transaction. Generally, a prohibited transaction includes a sale or disposition of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. While we believe that the dispositions of our assets pursuant to the restructuring of our investment strategy should not be treated as prohibited transactions, whether a particular sale will be treated as a prohibited transaction depends on the underlying facts and circumstances. We have not sought and do not intend to seek a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding any dispositions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our dispositions of such assets will not be subject to the prohibited transactions tax. If all or a significant portion of those dispositions were treated as prohibited transactions, we would incur a significant U.S. federal income tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income for that calendar year. Our taxable income is determined without regard to any deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code and to reduce exposure to federal income and nondeductible excise taxes. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in determining our taxable income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis in order to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.Certain limitations limit a third party's ability to acquire us or effectuate a change in our control. Limitations imposed to protect our REIT status. In order to protect us against the loss of our REIT status, among other restrictions, our declaration of trust limits any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding equity shares, defined as common shares or preferred shares, subject to certain exceptions. These ownership limits may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us. Our Board of Trustees has granted limited waivers of the ownership limits to Vornado Realty, L.P., BlackRock, Inc. and Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc.Severance payments under employment agreements. Substantial termination payments may be required to be paid under the provisions of employment agreements with certain of our executives upon a change of control. We have entered into employment agreements with four of our executive officers which provide that, upon the occurrence of a change in control of us (including a change in ownership of more than 50% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding securities, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, dissolution, the acquisition, except from us, of 20% or more of our voting shares or a change in the majority of our Board of Trustees), if those executive officers are terminated without cause, as defined, those executive officers may be entitled to severance benefits based on their current annual base salaries and trailing average of recent annual cash bonuses as defined in the employment agreements. Accordingly, these payments may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our ability to issue additional shares. Our amended and restated declaration of trust (1) authorizes 400,000,000 common shares, 100,000,000 preferred shares and 500,000,000 excess shares and (2) authorizes our Board of Trustees to cause us to issue these shares without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees is able to establish the preferences and rights of any such class or series of additional shares, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in shareholders' best interests. At December 31, 2011, in addition to common shares, we had outstanding 2,740,874 Series B Preferred Shares, 1,970,200 Series C Preferred Shares, and 6,200,000 Series D Preferred Shares. Our Series B, Series C and Series D Preferred Shares include provisions, such as increases in dividend rates or adjustments to conversion rates, that may deter a change of control. The establishment and issuance of shares of our existing series of preferred shares or a future class or series of shares could make a change of control of us more difficult.19Maryland Business Combination Act. The Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, establishes special restrictions against “business combinations” between a Maryland REIT and “interested shareholders” or their affiliates unless an exemption is applicable. An interested shareholder includes a person who beneficially owns, and an affiliate or associate of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting shares, but a person is not an interested shareholder if the Board of Trustees approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested shareholder, which approval may be conditioned by the Board of Trustees. Among other things, Maryland law prohibits (for a period of five years) a merger and certain other transactions between a Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder, or an affiliate of an interested shareholder. The five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. Thereafter, any such business combination must be recommended by the Board of Trustees and approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the common shareholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the Board of Trustees prior to the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. The business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if such acquisition would be in shareholders' best interests. In connection with the Newkirk Merger, Vornado Realty Trust, which we refer to as Vornado, was granted a limited exemption from the definition of “interested shareholder.” Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a Maryland REIT acquired in a “control share acquisition” shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Shares owned by the acquirer, by our officers or by employees who are our trustees are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter. “Control Shares” means shares that, if aggregated with all other shares previously acquired by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights of control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a shareholders' meeting or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as required under the statute, then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a shareholders' meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares entitled to vote, all other shareholders may exercise appraisal rights. Any control shares acquired in a control share acquisition which are not exempt under our by-laws will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Our amended and restated by-laws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. We cannot assure you that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.Limits on ownership of our capital shares may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing someone from taking control of us. For us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, among other requirements, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined for federal income tax purposes to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year, and these capital shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (in each case, other than the first such year for which a REIT election is made). Our amended and restated declaration of trust includes certain restrictions regarding transfers of our capital shares and ownership limits.Actual or constructive ownership of our capital shares in violation of the restrictions or in excess of the share ownership limits contained in our amended and restated declaration of trust would cause the violative transfer or ownership to be void or cause the shares to be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to a person or entity who can own the shares without violating these limits. As a result, if a violative transfer were made, the recipient of the shares would not acquire any economic or voting rights attributable to the transferred shares. Additionally, the constructive ownership rules for these limits are complex, and groups of related individuals or entities may be deemed a single owner and consequently in violation of the share ownership limits.However, these restrictions and limits may not be adequate in all cases to prevent the transfer of our capital shares in violation of the ownership limitations. The ownership limits discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing someone from taking control of us, even though a change of control could involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in shareholders' best interests. 20Legislative or regulatory tax changes could have an adverse effect on us.At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. REIT dividends generally are not eligible for the reduced rates currently applicable to certain corporate dividends (unless attributable to dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries and otherwise eligible for such rates). As a result, investment in non-REIT corporations may be relatively more attractive than investment in REITs. This could adversely affect the market price of our shares.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us and the tenants of properties in which we have an interest.Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, which we refer to as GAAP, are subject to interpretation by various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as the FASB. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change and could affect the business practices and decisions of the tenants of properties in which we have an interest. We may change the dividend policy for our common shares in the future.We currently expect to pay an aggregate annual dividend of $0.50 per common share with respect to the 2012 taxable year. However, the decision to declare and pay dividends on our common shares in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Trustees in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of debt and equity capital, applicable REIT and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. The actual dividend payable will be determined by our Board of Trustees based upon the circumstances at the time of declaration and the actual dividend payable may vary from such expected amount. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Our Board of Trustees may change our investment policy without shareholders' approval. Subject to our fundamental investment policy to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our Board of Trustees will determine our investment and financing policies, growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution, acquisition, disposition and operating policies. Our Board of Trustees may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote by shareholders. Accordingly, shareholders' control over changes in our strategies and policies is limited to the election of trustees and changes made by our Board of Trustees may not serve the interests of shareholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to distribute cash to shareholders or qualify as a REIT.The concentration of ownership by certain investors may limit other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. At December 31, 2011, Vornado beneficially owned approximately 18.5 million common shares, and E. Robert Roskind, our Chairman, beneficially owned approximately 1.1 million of our common shares and approximately 1.5 million OP units, which are currently redeemable for approximately 1.7 million common shares, or with respect to a portion of the OP units, at our election, cash. Mr. Roskind and an employee of Vornado sit on our Board of Trustees as of the date of filing this Annual Report. Each of Vornado and Mr. Roskind may have substantial influence over us and on the outcome of any matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between each of Vornado and Mr. Roskind and our other equity or debt holders. In addition, Vornado engages in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business and may engage in activities that result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as competition for properties and tenants.Securities eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price.We have an unallocated universal shelf registration statement and a direct share purchase plan, pursuant to which we may issue additional common shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, an aggregate of approximately 8.4 million of our common shares are issuable upon the exercise of employee share options and upon the exchange of OP units. There are also 16.4 million common shares underlying our 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes as of December 31, 2011, which is subject to increase upon certain events, including if we pay a quarterly common share dividend in excess of $0.10 per common share. Depending upon the number of such securities issued, exercised or exchanged at one time, an issuance, exercise or exchange of such securities could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares.21 We are dependent upon our key personnel. We are dependent upon key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We are dependent on certain of our executive officers for business direction. In January 2012, we entered into three-year employment agreements with each of T. Wilson Eglin, our Chief Executive Officer and President, E. Robert Roskind, our Chairman, Richard J. Rouse, our Vice Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, and Patrick Carroll, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. However, an employment agreement does not itself prevent an employee from resigning. Our inability to retain the services of any of our key personnel or our loss of any of their services could adversely impact our operations. We do not have key man life insurance coverage on our executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.22