Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. All references to the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Item 1A mean Lexington Realty Trust and all entities owned by us, including non-consolidated entities, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. We are subject to risks involved in single tenant leases. We focus our acquisition activities on real properties that are net leased to single tenants. Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a significant reduction in the operating cash flow generated by the property leased to that tenant and might decrease the value of that property. In March 2006, Dana Corporation, which we refer to as Dana, a tenant in 11 of our properties (including non-consolidated entities), filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Dana succeeded on motions to reject leases on two of our properties and those of a non-consolidated entity and has affirmed the nine other leases. During the second quarter of 2006, we recorded an impairment charge of $1.1 million and accelerated amortization of an above-market lease of $2.3 million, relating to the write-off of lease intangibles and the above market lease for the disaffirmed lease of a consolidated property. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded an additional impairment charge of approximately $6.1 million relating to this property. In addition, our proportionate share from a non-consolidated entity of the impairment charge and accelerated amortization of an above-market lease for a disaffirmed lease was $0.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively. In addition, we sold our bankruptcy claim (including our interest through a non-consolidated entity) related to the two rejected leases for approximately $7.1 million, which resulted in a gain of $6.9 million. We rely on revenues derived from major tenants. Revenues from several of our tenants and/or their guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our base rental revenues. As of December 31, 2006, our 10 largest tenants/guarantors, which occupied 38 properties, represented approximately 30.1% of our base rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, including our proportionate share of base rental revenue from non-consolidated entities and base rental revenue recognized from properties sold through the respective date of sale. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of the tenants of these properties could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenues from these tenants and/or result in vacancies, which would reduce our revenues and increase operating costs until the affected property is re-let, and could decrease the ultimate sales value of that property. Upon the expiration or other termination of the leases that are currently in place with respect to these properties, we may not be able to re-lease the vacant property at a comparable lease rate or without incurring additional expenditures in connection with the re-leasing. We could become more highly leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, indebtedness in furtherance of our activities. Neither our declaration of trust nor any policy statement formally adopted by our Board of Trustees limits either the total amount of indebtedness or the specified percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. Our credit facility and the MLP’s secured loan each contain cross-default provisions to, with respect to our credit facility, our other material indebtedness (as defined therein), and, with respect to the MLP’s secured loan, the MLP’s other indebtedness. In the event of a default on such other material indebtedness, the indebtedness under our credit facility or the MLP’s indebtedness under its secured loan, as applicable, could be accelerated. Depending upon the amount of indebtedness under our credit facility and the MLP’s secured loan, such an acceleration could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our current credit facility and the MLP’s secured loan also each contain various covenants which limit the amount of secured, unsecured and variable-rate indebtedness we may incur and restricts the amount of capital we may invest in specific categories of assets in which we may otherwise want to invest. 8 Table of Contents Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our borrowing costs and net income and can adversely affect our share price. We have exposure to market risks relating to increases in interest rates due to our variable-rate debt. An increase in interest rates may increase our costs of borrowing on existing variable-rate indebtedness, leading to a reduction in our net income. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding $65.2 million in variable-rate indebtedness. The $547.2 million outstanding under the MLP’s secured loan, as of December 31, 2006, is subject to an interest rate swap agreement and an interest rate cap agreement, which have the effect of fixing the interest rate on the borrowings. The level of our variable-rate indebtedness, along with the interest rate associated with such variable-rate indebtedness, may change in the future and materially affect our interest costs and net income. In addition, our interest costs on our fixed-rate indebtedness can increase if we are required to refinance our fixed-rate indebtedness at maturity at higher interest rates. Furthermore, the public valuation of our common shares is related primarily to the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, the market price of our common shares may decrease because potential investors seeking a higher dividend yield than they would receive from our common shares may sell our common shares in favor of higher rate interest-bearing securities. We face risks associated with refinancings. A significant number of our properties are subject to mortgage notes with balloon payments due at maturity. As of December 31, 2006, the consolidated scheduled balloon payments for the next five calendar years, are as follows: 2007 — $0; 2008 — $631.1 million; 2009 — $60.8 million; 2010 — $56.6 million; and 2011 — $108.7 million. As of December 31, 2006, the scheduled balloon payments on our joint venture real properties for the next five calendar years were as follows: Total Our Proportionate Share 2007 $43.9 million $21.9 million 2008 $0 $0 2009 $69.0 million $23.6 million 2010 $61.6 million $20.5 million 2011 $67.0 million $21.7 million Our ability to make the scheduled balloon payments will depend upon the amount available under our credit facility and our ability either to refinance the related mortgage debt or to sell the related property. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available mortgage rates, the lease terms of the mortgaged properties, our equity in the mortgaged properties, our financial condition, the operating history of the mortgaged properties and tax laws. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund the scheduled balloon payments or to sell the related property at a price that generates sufficient proceeds to pay the scheduled balloon payments, we would lose our entire investment in the related property. 9 Table of Contents On January 5, 2006, we announced that we informed the holder of the non-recourse mortgage on one of our properties located in Milpitas, California that we will no longer make debt service payments as a result of a vacancy caused by the expiration of the lease on this property in December 2005. As a result of this decision, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $12.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2005, which was equal to the difference between this property’s net book value (approximately $17.3 million) and our estimate of the property’s fair market value (approximately $5.2 million). During the second quarter of 2006, the property was conveyed to the lender in full satisfaction of the mortgage, which resulted in a gain on debt satisfaction of $6.3 million. During the third quarter of 2006, the tenant in our Warren, Ohio property exercised its option to purchase the property at fair market value, as defined in the purchase agreement. We have received appraisals that estimate that the maximum fair market value, as defined, will not exceed approximately $15.8 million. As a result of the exercise of the purchase option, we recorded an impairment charge of $28.2 million (including $6.6 million applicable to minority interest) in the third quarter of 2006. We face uncertainties relating to lease renewals and re-letting of space. Upon the expiration of current leases for space located in our properties, we may not be able to re-let all or a portion of that space, or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. If we are unable to re-let promptly all or a substantial portion of the space located in our properties or if the rental rates we receive upon re-letting are significantly lower than current rates, our net income and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected due to the resulting reduction in rent receipts and increase in our property operating costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of their leases. This risk is increased as a result of the Merger since the current lease term of many of the MLP’s properties, including joint ventures, will expire over the next three years and the renewal rates are lower than the current market rates. As of December 31, 2006, the MLP has 105 leases, with an estimated straight-line rent of $107.7 million, scheduled to expire by the end of 2009. Certain of our properties are cross-collateralized. As of December 31, 2006, the mortgages on three sets of two properties are cross-collateralized: (1) Canton, Ohio and Spartansburg, South Carolina leased to Best Buy Co. Inc., (2) 730 N. Black Branch Road, Elizabethtown, Kentucky and 750 N. Black Branch Road, Elizabethtown, Kentucky leased to Dana Corporation, and (3) Dry Ridge, Kentucky and Owensboro, Kentucky leased to Dana Corporation. Furthermore, all properties of the MLP’s subsidiaries that are not encumbered by property specific debt are cross-collateralized under the MLP’s secured loan and, in addition, one set of four properties is cross-collateralized. To the extent that any of our properties are cross-collateralized, any default by us under the mortgage note relating to one property will result in a default under the financing arrangements relating to any other property that also provides security for that mortgage note or is cross-collateralized with such mortgage note. We face possible liability relating to environmental matters. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, as an owner of real property, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, in or under our properties, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. These liabilities may include government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. These laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence or disposal of those substances. This liability may be imposed on us in connection with the activities of an operator of, or tenant at, the property. The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could exceed the value of the property and/or our aggregate assets. In addition, the presence of those substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remove those substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent that property or to borrow using that property as collateral, which, in turn, would reduce our revenues and ability to make distributions. A property can also be adversely affected either through physical contamination or by virtue of an adverse effect upon value attributable to the migration of hazardous or toxic substances, or other contaminants that have or may have emanated from other properties. Although our tenants are primarily responsible for any environmental damages and claims related to the leased premises, in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of any of our tenants to satisfy any obligations with respect to the property leased to that tenant, we may be required to satisfy such obligations. In addition, we may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims irrespective of the provisions of any lease. 10 Table of Contents From time to time, in connection with the conduct of our business, we authorize the preparation of Phase I environmental reports and, when necessary, Phase II environmental reports, with respect to our properties. Based upon these environmental reports and our ongoing review of our properties, as of the date of this Annual Report, we are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties that we believe would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance, however, that the environmental reports will reveal all environmental conditions at our properties or that the following will not expose us to material liability in the future: • the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions; • changes in law; • activities of tenants; or • activities relating to properties in the vicinity of our properties. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise adversely affect the operations of our tenants, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Uninsured losses or a loss in excess of insured limits could adversely affect our financial condition. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance on most of our properties, with policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar properties. However, with respect to those properties where the leases do not provide for abatement of rent under any circumstances, we generally do not maintain rent loss insurance. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, terrorism or certain acts of God that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types would adversely affect our financial condition. Future terrorist attacks such as the attacks which occurred in New York City, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and the military conflicts such as the military actions taken by the United States and its allies in Afghanistan and Iraq, could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and market liquidity. Among other things, it is possible that interest rates may be affected by these events. An increase in interest rates may increase our costs of borrowing, leading to a reduction in our net income. These types of terrorist acts could also result in significant damages to, or loss of, our properties. We and our tenants may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable economic terms for losses resulting from acts of terrorism. Our lenders may require that we carry terrorism insurance even if we do not believe this insurance is necessary or cost effective. We may also be prohibited under the applicable lease from passing all or a portion of the cost of such insurance through to the tenant. Should an act of terrorism result in an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types would adversely affect our financial condition. Competition may adversely affect our ability to purchase properties. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in our properties. Due to our focus on net lease properties located throughout the United States, and because most competitors are locally and/or regionally focused, we do not encounter the same competitors in each market. Our competitors include other REITs, financial institutions, insurance companies, pension funds, private companies and individuals. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties that we wish to purchase. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and share price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and to maintain our qualification as a REIT and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our shares could drop significantly. We may have limited control over our joint venture investments. Our joint venture investments constitute a significant portion of our assets and will constitute a significant component of our growth strategy. Our joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our joint venture partner might, at any time, become bankrupt, have different interests or goals than we do, or take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner have full control over the joint venture. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in joint ventures. One of the joint ventures, Concord Debt Holdings LLC, is owned equally by the MLP and a subsidiary of Winthrop. This joint venture, which recently completed a CDO offering, is managed by an investment committee which consists of five members, two members appointed by each of the MLP and Winthrop (with one appointee from each of the MLP and Winthrop qualifying as “independent”) and the fifth member appointed by FUR Holdings LLC, the primary owner of the former external advisor of the MLP and the current external advisor of Winthrop. Each investment in excess of $20.0 million to be made by this joint venture, as well as additional material matters, requires the consent of three members of the investment committee appointed by the MLP and Winthrop. Accordingly, the joint venture may not take certain actions or invest in certain assets even if the MLP believes it to be in its best interest. Michael L. Ashner, our Executive Chairman and Director of Strategic Transactions is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Winthrop and managing member of FUR Holdings LLC. Joint venture investments may conflict with our ability to make attractive investments. Under the terms of our active joint venture with the CRF, we are required to first offer to the joint venture 50% of our opportunities to acquire office and industrial properties requiring a minimum investment of $15.0 million which are net leased primarily to investment grade tenants for a minimum term of ten years, are available for immediate delivery and satisfy other specified investment criteria. Similarly, under the terms of our joint venture with Utah, unless 75% of Utah’s capital commitment is funded, we are required to first offer to the joint venture all of our opportunities to acquire certain office, bulk warehouse and distribution properties requiring an investment of $8.0 million to $30.0 million which are net leased primarily to non-investment grade tenants for a minimum term of at least nine years and satisfy other specified investment criteria, subject also to our obligation to first offer such opportunities to our joint venture with CRF. Our Board of Trustees adopted a conflicts policy with respect to us and LSAC, a real estate investment company that we advise. Under the conflicts policy, we are required to first offer to LSAC, subject to the first offer rights of CRF and Utah, all of our opportunities to acquire: (i) general purpose real estate net leased to unrated or below investment grade credit tenants; (ii) net leased special purpose real estate located in the United States, such as medical buildings, theaters, hotels and auto dealerships; (iii) net leased properties located in the Americas outside of the United States with rent payments denominated in United States dollars with such properties typically leased to U.S. companies; (iv) specialized facilities in the United States supported by net leases or other contracts where a significant portion of the facility’s value is in equipment or other improvements, such as power generation assets and cell phone towers; and (v) net leased equipment and major capital assets that are integral to the operations of LSAC’s tenants and LSAC’s real estate investments. To the extent that a specific investment opportunity, which is not otherwise subject to a first offer obligation to our joint ventures with CRF or Utah, is determined to be suitable to us and LSAC, the investment opportunity will be allocated to 12 Table of Contents LSAC. If full allocation to LSAC is not reasonably practicable (for example, if LSAC does not have sufficient capital), we may allocate a portion of the investment to ourselves after determining in good faith that such allocation is fair and reasonable. We will apply the foregoing allocation procedures between LSAC and any investment funds or programs, companies or vehicles or other entities that we control or which have overlapping investment objectives with LSAC. Only if a joint venture partner elects not to approve the applicable joint venture’s pursuit of an acquisition opportunity or the applicable exclusivity conditions have expired may we pursue the opportunity directly. As a result of the foregoing rights of first offer, we may not be able to make attractive acquisitions directly and may only receive an interest in such acquisitions through our interest in these joint ventures. Certain of our trustees and officers may face conflicts of interest with respect to sales and refinancings. Michael L. Ashner, E. Robert Roskind and Richard J. Rouse, our Executive Chairman, Co-Vice Chairman, and Co-Vice Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, respectively, each own limited partnership interests in certain of our operating partnerships, and as a result, may face different and more adverse tax consequences than our other shareholders will if we sell certain properties or reduce mortgage indebtedness on certain properties. Those individuals may, therefore, have different objectives than our other shareholders regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale of such properties or reduction of mortgage debt. Accordingly, there may be instances in which we may not sell a property or pay down the debt on a property even though doing so would be advantageous to our other shareholders. In the event of an appearance of a conflict of interest, the conflicted trustee or officer must recuse himself or herself from any decision making or seek a waiver of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are illiquid. Equity investments in real estate are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changed conditions will be limited. Our Board of Trustees may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number of properties in which we may seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. We could change our investment, disposition and financing policies without a vote of our shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993, and we intend to continue to meet these requirements in the future. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. No assurance can be given that we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. The Code provisions and income tax regulations applicable to REITs are more complex than those applicable to corporations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our net taxable income. In addition, our income would be subject to tax at the regular corporate rates. We also could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. Cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be significantly reduced for each year in which we do not qualify as a REIT. In that event, we would not be required to continue to make distributions. Although we currently intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us, without the consent of the shareholders, to revoke the REIT election or to otherwise take action that would result in disqualification. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income for that calendar year. Our taxable income is determined without regard to any deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the distribution requirements 13 Table of Contents of the Code and to reduce exposure to federal income and nondeductible excise taxes. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in determining our income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis in order to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Certain limitations limit a third party’s ability to acquire us or effectuate a change in our control. Limitations imposed to protect our REIT status. In order to protect us against the loss of our REIT status, our declaration of trust limits any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% in value of any class of our outstanding shares, subject to certain exceptions. The ownership limit may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us. Severance payments under employment agreements. Substantial termination payments may be required to be paid under the provisions of employment agreements with certain of our executives upon a change of control. We have entered into employment agreements with seven of our executive officers which provide that, upon the occurrence of a change in control of us (including a change in ownership of more than 50% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding securities, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, dissolution, the acquisition, except from us, of 20% or more of our voting shares or a change in the majority of our Board of Trustees), those executive officers would be entitled to severance benefits based on their current annual base salaries and recent annual bonuses, as defined in the employment agreements. The provisions of these agreements could deter a change of control of us. Accordingly, these payments may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Limitation due to our ability to issue preferred shares. Our declaration of trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to issue preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The Board of Trustees is able to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued which could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in shareholders’ best interests. As of the date of this Annual Report, we had outstanding 3,160,000 Series B Preferred Shares that we issued in June 2003, 3,100,000 Series C Preferred Shares that we issued in December 2004 and January 2005, 6,200,000 Series D Preferred Shares that we issued in February 2007, and one share of our special voting preferred stock that we issued in December 2006 in connection with the Merger. Our Series B, Series C and Series D Preferred Shares and our special voting preferred stock include provisions that may deter a change of control. The establishment and issuance of shares of our existing series of preferred shares or a future series of preferred shares could make a change of control of us more difficult. Limitation imposed by the Maryland Business Combination Act. The Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, establishes special restrictions against “business combinations” between a Maryland REIT and “interested shareholders” or their affiliates unless an exemption is applicable. An interested shareholder includes a person who beneficially owns, and an affiliate or associate of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting shares, but a person is not an interested shareholder if the Board of Trustees approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have been an interested shareholder. Among other things, Maryland law prohibits (for a period of five years) a merger and certain other transactions between a Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder. The five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. Thereafter, any such business combination must be recommended by the Board of Trustees and approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the common shareholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the Board of Trustees prior to the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. The business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if such acquisition would be in shareholders’ best interests. In connection with our merger with Newkirk, certain holders of MLP securities were granted a limited exemption from the definition of “interested shareholder.” Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a Maryland REIT acquired in a “control share acquisition” shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the vote entitled to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Shares owned by the acquiror, by our officers or by employees who are our trustees are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter. “Control Shares” means shares that, if aggregated with all other shares previously acquired by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing trustees within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain 14 Table of Contents exceptions. If voting rights of control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a shareholders’ meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a shareholders’ meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares entitled to vote, all other shareholders may exercise appraisal rights. Any control shares acquired in a control share acquisition which are not exempt under our by-laws will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Our by-laws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. We cannot assure you that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Limits on ownership of our capital shares may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing someone from taking control of us. For us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, among other requirements, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined for federal income tax purposes to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year, and these capital shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (in each case, other than the first such year for which a REIT election is made). Our declaration of trust includes certain restrictions regarding transfers of our capital shares and ownership limits. Actual or constructive ownership of our capital shares in excess of the share ownership limits contained in its declaration of trust would cause the violative transfer or ownership to be void or cause the shares to be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to a person or entity who can own the shares without violating these limits. As a result, if a violative transfer were made, the recipient of the shares would not acquire any economic or voting rights attributable to the transferred shares. Additionally, the constructive ownership rules for these limits are complex and groups of related individuals or entities may be deemed a single owner and consequently in violation of the share ownership limits. These restrictions and limits may not be adequate in all cases, however, to prevent the transfer of our capital shares in violation of the ownership limitations. The ownership limits discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing someone from taking control of us, even though a change of control could involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in shareholders’ best interests. Legislative or regulatory tax changes could have an adverse effect on us. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. REIT dividends generally are not eligible for the reduced rates currently applicable to certain corporate dividends (unless attributable to dividends from LSAC and other taxable REIT subsidiaries and otherwise eligible for such rates). As a result, investment in non-REIT corporations may be relatively more attractive than investment in REITs. This could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Our Board of Trustees may change our investment policy without shareholders’ approval. Subject to our fundamental investment policy to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our Board of Trustees will determine its investment and financing policies, growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution, acquisition, disposition and operating policies. Our Board of Trustees may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote by shareholders. Accordingly, shareholders’ control over changes in our strategies and policies is limited to the election of trustees, and changes made by our Board of Trustees may not serve the interests of shareholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to distribute cash to shareholders or qualify as a REIT. Our operations and the operations of Newkirk may not be integrated successfully, and the intended benefits of the Merger may not be realized. The Merger presents challenges to management, including the integration of our operations and properties with those of Newkirk. The Merger also poses other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the operations of the two entities. Any difficulties that we encounter in the transition and integration processes, and any level of integration that is not successfully achieved, could have an adverse effect 15 Table of Contents on our revenues, level of expenses and operating results. We may also experience operational interruptions or the loss of key employees, tenants and customers. As a result, notwithstanding our expectations, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits or cost savings of the Merger. Our inability to carry out our growth strategy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy is based on the acquisition and development of additional properties and related assets, including acquisitions of large portfolios and real estate companies and acquisitions through co-investment programs such as joint ventures. In the context of our business plan, “development” generally means an expansion or renovation of an existing property or the acquisition of a newly constructed property. We may provide a developer with a commitment to acquire a property upon completion of construction of a property and commencement of rent from the tenant. Our plan to grow through the acquisition and development of new properties could be adversely affected by trends in the real estate and financing businesses. The consummation of any future acquisitions will be subject to satisfactory completion of an extensive valuation analysis and due diligence review and to the negotiation of definitive documentation. Our ability to implement our strategy may be impeded because we may have difficulty finding new properties and investments at attractive prices that meet our investment criteria, negotiating with new or existing tenants or securing acceptable financing. If we are unable to carry out our strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Acquisitions of additional properties entail the risk that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations, including operating and leasing expectations. Redevelopment and new project development are subject to numerous risks, including risks of construction delays, cost overruns or force majeure events that may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such as the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits, and the incurrence of development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion. Some of our acquisitions and developments may be financed using the proceeds of periodic equity or debt offerings, lines of credit or other forms of secured or unsecured financing that may result in a risk that permanent financing for newly acquired projects might not be available or would be available only on disadvantageous terms. If permanent debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms to refinance acquisitions undertaken without permanent financing, further acquisitions may be curtailed or cash available for distribution to shareholders may be adversely affected. The concentration of ownership by certain investors may limit other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2006 (after the exchange of all shares of Newkirk in the Merger), Michael L. Ashner and Winthrop collectively owned 3,604,000 of our outstanding common shares and Mr. Ashner, Vornado Realty Trust, which we refer to as Vornado, and Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., which we refer to as Apollo, collectively owned 27,684,378 voting MLP units which are redeemable by the holder thereof for, at our election, cash or our common shares. Accordingly, on a fully-diluted basis, Mr. Ashner, Apollo, Vornado and Winthrop collectively held a 28.4% ownership interest in us, as of December 31, 2006 (after the exchange of all shares of Newkirk in the Merger). As holders of voting MLP units, Mr. Ashner, Vornado and Apollo, as well as other holders of voting MLP units, have the right to direct the voting of our special voting preferred stock. Holders of interests in our other operating partnerships do not have voting rights. In addition, Mr. Ashner controls NKT Advisors, LLC, which holds the one share of our special voting preferred stock pursuant to a voting trustee agreement. To the extent that an affiliate of Vornado is a member of our Board of Trustees, NKT Advisors, LLC has the right to direct the vote of the voting MLP units held by Vornado with respect to the election of members of our Board of Trustees. E. Robert Roskind, our Co-Vice Chairman, owned, as of December 31, 2006, 819,656 of our common shares and 1,565,282 units of our limited partnership interest in our other operating partnerships, which are redeemable for, at our election, cash or our common shares. On a fully diluted basis, Mr. Roskind held a 2.2% ownership interest in us as of December 31, 2006 (after the exchange of all shares of common stock of Newkirk in the Merger). Future issuances of shares pursuant to existing contractual arrangements may have adverse effects on our stock price. The joint ventures described below each have a provision in their respective joint venture agreements permitting the joint venture partner to sell its equity position to us. In the event that any of the joint venture partners exercises its right to sell its equity position to us, and we elect to fund the acquisition of such equity position with our common shares, such venture partner could acquire a large concentration of our common shares. 16 Table of Contents In 1999, we entered into a joint venture agreement with CRF to acquire properties. This joint venture and a separate partnership established by the partners has made investments in 13 properties for an aggregated capitalized cost of $390.5 million and no additional investments will be made unless they are made pursuant to a tax-free exchange. We have a 33.33% equity interest in this joint venture. In December 2001, we formed a second joint venture with CRF to acquire additional properties in an aggregate amount of up to approximately $560.0 million. We have a 25% equity interest in this joint venture. As of December 31, 2006, this second joint venture has invested in 13 properties for an aggregate capitalized cost of $421.9 million. Under these joint venture agreements, CRF has the right to sell its equity position in the joint ventures to us. In the event CRF exercises its right to sell its equity interest in either joint venture to us, we may, at our option, either issue our common shares to CRF for the fair market value of CRF’s equity position, based upon a formula contained in the respective joint venture agreement, or pay cash to CRF equal to 110% of the fair market value of CRF’s equity position. We have the right not to accept any property in the joint ventures (thereby reducing the fair market value of CRF’s equity position) that does not meet certain underwriting criteria. In addition, the joint venture agreements contain a mutual buy-sell provision in which either CRF or us can force the sale of any property. In October 2003, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Clarion, which has made investments in 17 properties for an aggregate capitalized cost of $487.0 million. No additional investments will be made unless they are made pursuant to a tax-free exchange or upon the mutual agreement of Clarion and us. We have a 30% equity interest in this joint venture. Under the joint venture agreement, Clarion has the right to sell its equity position in the joint venture to us. In the event Clarion exercises its right to sell its equity interest in the joint venture to us, we may, at our option, either issue our common shares to Clarion for the fair market value of Clarion’s equity position, based upon a formula contained in the partnership agreement, or pay cash to Clarion equal to 100% of the fair market value of Clarion’s equity position. We have the right not to accept any property in the joint venture (thereby reducing the fair market value of Clarion’s equity position) that does not meet certain underwriting criteria. In addition, the joint venture agreement contains a mutual buy-sell provision in which either Clarion or us can force the sale of any property. In June 2004, we entered in a joint venture agreement with Utah which was expanded in December 2004, to acquire properties in an aggregate amount of up to approximately $345.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, this joint venture has made investments in 15 properties for an aggregate capitalized cost of $247.0 million. We have a 30% equity interest in this joint venture. Under the joint venture agreement, Utah has the right to sell its equity position in the joint venture to us. This right becomes effective upon the occurrence of certain conditions. In the event Utah exercises its right to sell its equity interest in the joint venture to us, we may, at our option, either issue our common shares to Utah for the fair market value of Utah’s equity position, based upon a formula contained in the joint venture agreement, or pay cash to Utah equal to 100% of the fair market value of Utah’s equity position. We have the right not to accept any property in the joint venture (thereby reducing the fair market value of Utah’s equity position) that does not meet certain underwriting criteria. In addition, the joint venture agreement contains a mutual buy-sell provision in which either Utah or us can force the sale of any property. Securities eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. Following the completion of the Merger, an aggregate of approximately 41,207,615 of our common shares became issuable upon: (i) the exchange of units of limited partnership interests in our operating partnership subsidiaries (41,191,115 common shares in the aggregate), and (ii) the exercise of outstanding options under our equity-based award plans (16,500 common shares). Depending upon the number of such securities exchanged or exercised at one time, an exchange or exercise of such securities could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares. We have filed a registration statement with the SEC that registers 35,505,267 of our common shares issuable on the redemption of outstanding MLP units to be sold. The registration statement also covers the resale of 3,500,000 of our common shares owned by Winthrop, which shares were previously subject to a lock up agreement that terminated on closing of the Merger, and 9,000 of our common shares held by The LCP Group L.P., whose chairman is E. Robert Roskind, our Co-Vice Chairman. The sale of these shares could result in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. We are dependent upon our key personnel and the terms of Mr. Ashner’s employment agreement affects our ability to make certain investments. We are dependent upon key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We will be dependent on our executive officers for strategic business direction and real estate experience. Prior to the Merger, we had entered into employment agreements with E. Robert Roskind, our Chairman, Richard J. Rouse, our Vice Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, T. Wilson Eglin, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, Patrick Carroll, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and 17 Table of Contents Treasurer, John B. Vander Zwaag, our Executive Vice President, and Paul Wood, our Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Secretary. Upon the completion of the Merger, we entered into an employment agreement with Michael L. Ashner, Newkirk’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to Mr. Ashner’s employment agreement, Mr. Ashner may voluntarily terminate his employment with us and become entitled to receive a substantial severance payment if we acquire or make an investment in a non-net lease business opportunity during the term of Mr. Ashner’s employment. This provision in Mr. Ashner’s agreement may cause us not to avail ourselves of those other business opportunities due to the potential consequences of acquiring such non-net lease business opportunities. Our inability to retain the services of any of our key personnel or our loss of any of their services could adversely impact our operations. We do not have key man life insurance coverage on our executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 