Risk Factors We do not have the financial or other resources to complete the regulatory approval process or commercialize any product and may not be able to obtain the necessary financing and other resources. At December 31, 2011, we had cash of approximately $5.4 million, which we believe is sufficient to fund our planned operations into the second quarter of 2012. We will require additional financing in order to complete preparation of the NDA and the regulatory process and seek approval to commercialize Probuphine, for which financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we do not have the financial or other resources necessary to commercialize any product and will need either to enter into a corporate partnership or licensing arrangement or raise the substantial funds required to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities in order to commercialize Probuphine (or any other product we may successfully develop) in the event regulatory approval is obtained. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into any such partnership or arrangement or raise such funds on acceptable terms, if at all. We must comply with extensive government regulations. The research, development, manufacture labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, import, export, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA in the U.S. and comparable health authorities in foreign markets. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Approval policies or regulations may change and the FDA and foreign authorities have substantial discretion in the pharmaceutical approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. Despite the time and expense invested in clinical development of product candidates, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, which may reduce the drug’s market potential. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of the products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Our business will be seriously harmed if our regulatory submissions are delayed or we cancel plans to make submissions for proposed products for any reason. Probuphine may not receive FDA approval. Probuphine, which has completed Phase 3 clinical development and is in the NDA preparation stage, will require significant further capital expenditures and regulatory clearances prior to commercialization. Even if we are able to obtain the requisite funding to complete the NDA submission and regulatory process, the FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of the product for many reasons, including: • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; • the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from non-clinical studies or clinical trials; • we may be unable to demonstrate that the product’s clinical and other benefits outweigh any safety or other perceived risks; • the FDA may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we, or our collaborators, contract; or • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage successfully complete the FDA regulatory approval process and are commercialized. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable FDA approval would prevent commercialization of Probuphine in the U.S. and would materially adversely impact our business and prospects. 8 If any product candidate that we successfully develop does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community, the revenues that it generates from their sales will be limited. Even if Probuphine or any other product candidate receives regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; • the clinical indications for which the product is approved; • acceptance by physicians, operators of hospitals and clinics and patients of the product as a safe and effective product; • the potential and perceived advantages of the product over alternative treatments; • the safety of the product in broader patient groups, including its use outside of approved indications; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; • the prevalence and severity of adverse events; • the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; and • unfavorable publicity relating to the product. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals and clinics, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate significant revenue from such products. We must comply with extensive government regulations. The development, manufacture, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, import, export, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA in the U.S. and comparable health authorities in foreign markets. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Approval policies or regulations may change and the FDA and foreign authorities have substantial discretion in the pharmaceutical approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. Despite the time and expense invested in clinical development of product candidates, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, which may reduce the drug’s market potential. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of the products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Our business will be seriously harmed if our regulatory submissions are delayed or we cancel plans to make submissions for proposed products for any reason. We face risks associated with third parties conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products; as well as our dependence on third parties to manufacture any products that we may successfully develop. We depend on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. We also depend upon third party manufacturers for the production of any products we may successfully develop to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which are similarly outside our direct control. If third party laboratories and medical institutions conducting studies of our products fail to maintain both good laboratory and clinical practices, the 9 studies could be delayed or have to be repeated. Similarly, if the manufacturers of any products we develop in the future fail to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, we may be forced to cease manufacturing such product until we have found another third party to manufacture the product. We face risks associated with product liability lawsuits that could be brought against us. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, personal injury or death. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources or destroy the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. We may be unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to: • obtain and keep patent protection for our products and technologies on an international basis; • enforce our patents to prevent others from using our inventions; • maintain and prevent others from using our trade secrets; and • operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that our patent rights will afford any competitive advantages, and these rights may be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Further, patents may not be issued on any of our pending patent applications in the U.S. or abroad. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before a potential product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, reducing or eliminating any advantage of the patent. For example, the two U.S. patents licensed by Titan under the MIT license have already expired, and we must rely on the “method of use” patent application for Probuphine to get patent protection and market exclusivity. If we sue others for infringing our patents, a court may determine that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity of our patent rights is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent the alleged infringement of our patent rights on the grounds that such activity is not covered by our patent claims. In addition, third parties may sue us for infringing their patents. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies and methods; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. Any litigation, whether to enforce our patent rights or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. 10 We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information, which may not be resolved in our favor. We face intense competition. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. We face, and will continue to face, competition from numerous companies that currently market, or are developing, products for the treatment of the diseases and disorders we have targeted. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. We also compete with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, as well as the recruitment of highly qualified personnel. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability or the ability of our collaborators to commercialize drug products, if any, may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. These third parties are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new drug products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our own or our collaborator’s drug products to enable us or them to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on their and our investments in research and product development. We may not be able to retain our key management and scientific personnel. As a company with a limited number of personnel, we are highly dependent on the services of our executive management and scientific staff, in particular Sunil Bhonsle and Marc Rubin, our President and Executive Chairman, respectively, and our Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer, all of whom are parties to employment agreements with us. The loss of one or more of such individuals could substantially impair ongoing research and development programs and could hinder our ability to obtain corporate partners. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We compete in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may not be successful in our efforts to attract and retain personnel. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced substantial fluctuations and could continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or prospects; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; • announcements about us or about our competitors, including introductions of new products; • litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; 11 • conditions in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; • governmental regulation and legislation; and • change in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers which sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouses)). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to the SEC regulations for “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any equity security that is not listed on a national exchange and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule set forth by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for the common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Our net operating losses and research and development tax credits may not be available to reduce future federal and state income tax payments. At December 31, 2011, we had federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of $220.9 million and $7.6 million, respectively, and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of $147.2 million and $7.4 million, respectively. Current federal and state tax laws include substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss and tax credits in the event of an ownership change. We have performed a change of ownership analysis through December 31, 2011 and, accordingly, all of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available to offset future taxable income, if any. Our stockholder rights plan may discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. In December 2011, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides for the potential issuance of dilutive junior preferred stock in the event of the acquisition or proposed acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, which acquisition has not been approved by our board of directors. While we believe that our stockholder rights plan enables our board of directors to maximize stockholder value, it may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial. 12 