Item 1A. Risk Factors The timing and amount of royalty revenues from Fanapt will be wholly dependent on the efforts of third parties. We do not have any role in the marketing, manufacture or commercialization of Fanapt. The timing and amount of royalty revenues we receive from the sale of this product will be wholly dependent upon the ability of Novartis to launch and commercialize this product in the United States and Canada and on the ability of Vanda or others to sell this product in other countries. Similarly, our ability to realize any royalty revenue relating to the depot formulation of the product will depend on the ability of Novartis to successfully complete the development and regulatory approval process and implement the marketing program necessary to commercialize this product. While Novartis has launched commercial sales of Fanapt in the U.S. in January 2010, Novartis may experience unanticipated problems that delay, perhaps materially, product sales and our receipt of revenues in the future. Our available capital is sufficient to fund our operations only through January 2012. At December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $3.2 million, which we believe is sufficient, together with the revenues from royalties on the sale of Fanapt and the $20.0 million of debt financing that is expected to fund on or about April 4, 2011, to sustain our planned operations through January 2012. We will meet with the FDA in the summer of 2011 to review all the data available on Probuphine in a pre-NDA meeting and confirm the path to filing an NDA. The FDA could request additional clinical trials, and we cannot be certain that the requisite funds will be available, from royalty revenues or otherwise, to continue the Probuphine program. Probuphine is in the development stage and may not be successfully developed or commercialized. Probuphine, which is in Phase 3 clinical development, may require significant further capital expenditures, development, testing, and regulatory clearances prior to commercialization. Even if we are able to obtain the requisite funding to continue this program, the results of preclinical and clinical studies to date are not necessarily indicative of whether a product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in large patient populations to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage successfully complete the FDA regulatory approval process and are commercialized. To date, we have experienced setbacks in some of our other product development efforts. For example, the results of a study evaluating the EKG profile of patients taking iloperidone led to a significant delay in the development of that product, a vaccine product formerly under development failed to meet the study’s primary endpoint, and a study of one of our products in a combination treatment was discontinued as a result of an interim safety analysis. We may continue to experience unanticipated problems relating to product development, testing, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, marketing and competition, and our costs and expenses could exceed current estimates. We cannot predict whether we will successfully develop and commercialize Probuphine or any other product. We must comply with extensive government regulations. The research, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs, including conducting preclinical and clinical testing to determine safety and efficacy, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Even after such time and expenditures, we may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of any products. We have limited experience in obtaining FDA approval. Regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, which may reduce the drug’s market potential. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of the products, if required, could result in restrictions 10 on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Our business will be seriously harmed if our regulatory submissions are delayed or we cancel plans to make submissions for proposed products for any of the following reasons: • unanticipated preclinical testing or clinical trial reports; • failure to reach agreement with the FDA regarding study protocols or endpoints; • changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations; • unanticipated enforcement of existing regulations; • unexpected technological developments; and • developments by our competitors. We face risks associated with third parties conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products; as well as our dependence on third parties to manufacture any products that we may successfully develop. We depend on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. We will also depend upon third party manufacturers for the production of any products we may successfully develop to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which are similarly outside our direct control. If third party laboratories and medical institutions conducting studies of our products fail to maintain both good laboratory and clinical practices, the studies could be delayed or have to be repeated. Similarly, if the manufacturers of any products we develop in the future fail to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, we may be forced to cease manufacturing such product until we have found another third party to manufacture the product. We face risks associated with clinical trial liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources or destroy the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. We may be unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to: • obtain and keep patent protection for our products and technologies on an international basis; • enforce our patents to prevent others from using our inventions; • maintain and prevent others from using our trade secrets; and • operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that our patent rights will afford any competitive advantages, and these rights may be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Further, patents may not be issued on any of our pending patent applications in the U.S. or abroad. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before a potential product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, reducing or eliminating any advantage of the patent. For example, the two U.S. patents licensed by Titan under the MIT license have already expired, and we must rely on the “method of use” patent application for Probuphine to get patent protection and market exclusivity. If we sue others for infringing our patents, a court may determine that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity of our patent rights is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent the alleged infringement of our patent rights on the grounds that such activity is not covered by our patent claims. 11 In addition, third parties may sue us for infringing their patents. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies and methods; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. Any litigation, whether to enforce our patent rights or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information, which may not be resolved in our favor. We face intense competition. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. We face, and will continue to face, competition from numerous companies that currently market, or are developing, products for the treatment of the diseases and disorders we have targeted. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. We also compete with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, as well as the recruitment of highly qualified personnel. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability or the ability of our collaborators to commercialize drug products, if any, may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. These third parties are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new drug products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our own or our collaborator’s drug products to enable us or them to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on their and our investments in research and product development. We may not be able to retain our key management and scientific personnel. As a company with a limited number of personnel, we are highly dependent on the services of our executive management and scientific staff, in particular Sunil Bhonsle and Marc Rubin, our President and Executive Chairman, respectively, and our Senior Vice President Clinical Development and Medical Affairs, all of whom are parties to employment agreements with us. The loss of one or more of such individuals could substantially 12 impair ongoing research and development programs and could hinder our ability to obtain corporate partners. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We compete in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may not be successful in our efforts to attract and retain personnel. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced substantial fluctuations and could continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; • announcements about us or about our competitors, including introductions of new products; • litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • conditions in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; • governmental regulation and legislation; and • change in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers which sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouses)). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to the SEC regulations for “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any equity security that is not listed on a national exchange and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule set forth by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for the common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Our net operating losses and research and development tax credits may not be available to reduce future federal and state income tax payments. At December 31, 2010, we had federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of $226.4 million and $7.0 million, respectively, and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of $138.8 million and $6.5 million, respectively. Current federal and state tax laws include substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss and tax credits in the event of an ownership change. We have not performed a change of ownership analysis since 1999 and, accordingly, some or all of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may not be available to offset future taxable income, if any. Even if the carryforwards are available, they may be subject to annual limitations, lack of future taxable income, or future ownership changes that could result in the expiration of the carryforwards before they are utilized. 13 