Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. We have a history of operating losses and may never be profitable. From our inception through December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $241.6 million. We will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as a result of the various costs associated with our research, development, financial, administrative, regulatory and management activities. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our products are at various stages of development and may not be successfully developed or commercialized. We do not currently have any products being sold on the commercial market. Our proposed products are at various stages of development, but all will require significant further capital expenditures, development, testing, and regulatory clearances prior to commercialization. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage successfully complete the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory approval process and are commercialized. We are subject to the risk that some or all of our proposed products: • will be found to be ineffective or unsafe; • will not receive necessary regulatory clearances; • will be unable to get to market in a timely manner; • will not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • will not be successfully marketed; or • will not be widely accepted by the physician community. To date, we have experienced setbacks in some of our product development efforts. For example, the results of a study evaluating the EKG profile of patients taking iloperidone lead to a significant delay in the development of that product, a vaccine product formerly under development failed to meet the study’s primary endpoint, and a study of one of our products in a combination treatment was discontinued as a result of an interim safety analysis. In addition, our Spheramine product is based upon new technology which may be risky and fail to show efficacy. We are not aware of any other cell therapy products for CNS disorders that have been approved by the FDA or any similar foreign government entity and cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any products based upon such technology. 11 We may continue to experience unanticipated problems relating to product development, testing, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, marketing and competition, and our costs and expenses could exceed current estimates. We cannot predict whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any products. We must comply with extensive government regulations. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities and the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs, including conducting preclinical and clinical testing to determine safety and efficacy, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Even after such time and expenditures, we may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of any products. We have limited experience in obtaining FDA approval. Regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, which may reduce the drug’s market potential. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of the products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Our regulatory submissions may be delayed or we may cancel plans to make submissions for proposed products for a number of reasons, including: • unanticipated preclinical testing or clinical trial reports; • failure to reach agreement with the FDA regarding study protocols or endpoints; • changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations; • unanticipated enforcement of existing regulations; • unexpected technological developments; and • developments by our competitors. If we and our corporate partners are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our business will be seriously harmed. In addition, we and our collaborative partners may be subject to regulation under state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulation. We cannot predict the impact of such regulation on us, although it could seriously harm our business. We face risks associated with third parties conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products as well as our dependence on third parties to manufacture any products that we may successfully develop. We depend on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. We will also depend upon third party manufacturers for the production of any products we may successfully develop to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which are similarly outside our direct control. If third party laboratories and medical institutions conducting studies of our products fail to maintain both good laboratory and clinical practices, the studies could be delayed or have to be repeated. Similarly, if the manufacturers of any products we develop in the future fail to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, we may be forced to cease manufacturing such product until we have found another third party to manufacture the product. We face many uncertainties relating to our human clinical trial strategy and results. In order to obtain the regulatory approvals that we need to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate that each product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. The results of preclinical and Phase I and Phase II clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of whether a 12 product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in large patient populations. Although two of our product candidates have reached Phase III human clinical trials, results from the studies have not supported a regulatory filing. Several other product candidates are currently advancing into Phase II human clinical trials. We may not be able to demonstrate that any of our product candidates will be safe or effective in advanced trials that involve larger numbers of patients. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA and: • must be conducted in conformance with the FDA’s good laboratory practice regulations; • must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight; • must meet requirements for informed consent; • must meet requirements for good clinical practices; • are subject to continuing FDA oversight; and • may require large numbers of test subjects. As described above in “Our products are at various stages of development and may not be successfully developed or commercialized,” our product development programs have in the past been and may in the future be curtailed, redirected or eliminated at any time for some or all of the following reasons: • unanticipated, negative or ambiguous results; • undesirable side effects which delay or extend the trials; • our inability to locate, recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; • difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our preclinical testing or clinical trials; • change in the focus of our development efforts; and • reevaluation of our clinical development strategy. Accordingly, our clinical trials may not proceed as anticipated or otherwise adequately support our applications for regulatory approval. We face risks associated with clinical trial liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. We face an inherent risk of clinical trial liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of our product candidates results in personal injury or death. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources or destroy the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. We may be unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to: • obtain and keep patent protection for our products and technologies on an international basis; • enforce our patents to prevent others from using our inventions; • maintain and prevent others from using our trade secrets; and • operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. 13 We cannot assure you that our patent rights will afford any competitive advantages, and these rights may be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Further, patents may not be issued on any of our pending patent applications in the U.S. or abroad. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before a potential product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, reducing or eliminating any advantage of the patent. If we sue others for infringing our patents, a court may determine that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity of our patent rights is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent the alleged infringement of our patent rights on the grounds that such activity is not covered by our patent claims. In addition, third parties may sue us for infringing their patents. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop using our technologies and methods; • stop certain research and development efforts; • develop non-infringing products or methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. Any litigation, whether to enforce our patent rights or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas which are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Most of our consultants are employed by, or have consulting agreements with, third parties and any inventions discovered by such individuals generally will not become our property. There is a risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by competitors. We face intense competition. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. We face, and will continue to face, competition from numerous companies that currently market, or are developing, products for the treatment of the diseases and disorders we have targeted. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. We also compete with universities and other research institutions in the 14 development of products, technologies and processes, as well as the recruitment of highly qualified personnel. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. We are dependent upon our key collaborative relationships and license and sponsored research agreements. As a company with limited resources, we rely significantly on the resources of third parties to conduct research and development and complete the regulatory approval process on our behalf. For example, our ability to ultimately derive revenues from iloperidone is almost entirely dependent upon Novartis and Vanda Pharmaceuticals completing the regulatory approval process and implementing the marketing program necessary to commercialize iloperidone if the product is approved by the FDA. We are similarly dependent upon Bayer Schering, our collaborator for the development and commercialization of Spheramine. Beyond our contractual rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that any existing or future corporate partner devotes to product development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates. We depend on our ability to maintain existing collaborative relationships, to develop new collaborative relationships with third parties and to acquire or in-license additional products and technologies for the development of new product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or develop new collaborative relationships, or that any such third-party products or technology will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Conflicts with our collaborators and strategic partners could result in strained relationships with them and impair our ability to enter into future collaborations, either of which could seriously harm our business. Our collaborators have, and may, to the extent permitted by our agreements, develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors or terminate their agreements with us prematurely. Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators or strategic partners over rights to our intellectual property and our rights to share in any of the future revenues from products or technologies resulting from use of our technologies, or our activities in separate fields may conflict with other business plans of our collaborators. We must meet payment and other obligations under our license and sponsored research agreements. Our license agreements relating to the in-licensing of technology generally require the payment of up-front license fees and royalties based on sales with minimum annual royalties, the use of due diligence in developing and bringing products to market, the achievement of funding milestones and, in some cases, the grant of stock to the licensor. Our sponsored research agreements generally require periodic payments on an annual or quarterly basis. Our failure to meet financial or other obligations under license or sponsored research agreements in a timely manner could result in the loss of our rights to proprietary technology or our right to have the applicable university or institution conduct research and development efforts. We may be dependent upon third parties to manufacture and market any products we successfully develop. We currently do not have the resources or capacity to commercially manufacture or directly market any of our proposed products. Collaborative arrangements may be pursued regarding the manufacture and marketing of any products that may be successfully developed. We may be unable to enter into additional collaborative arrangements to manufacture or market any proposed products or, in lieu thereof, establish our own manufacturing operations or sales force. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability or the ability of our collaborators to commercialize drug products, if any, may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations 15 will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. These third parties are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new drug products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our own or our collaborator’s drug products to enable us or them to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on their and our investments in research and product development. We may not be able to retain our key management and scientific personnel. As a company with a limited number of personnel, we are highly dependent on the services of our executive management and scientific staff. The loss of one or more of such individuals could substantially impair ongoing research and development programs and could hinder our ability to obtain corporate partners. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We compete in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain personnel. We will need additional financing. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $30.0 million of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our financing agreement with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd. can provide us with up to an additional $24.0 million, subject to shareholder approval for certain amounts under this agreement, as well as an increase in our authorized capital stock. We will need to seek additional financing to continue our product development activities, and will be required to obtain substantial funding to commercialize any products other than iloperidone or Spheramine that we may successfully develop. Other than the Common Stock Purchase Agreement with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., we do not have any funding commitments or arrangements. If we are unable to generate adequate revenues, enter into a corporate collaboration, complete a debt or equity offering, or otherwise obtain sufficient financing when and if needed, we may be required to reduce, defer or discontinue one or more of our product development programs. We will need to seek and obtain stockholder approval of an increase in our authorized capital stock in order to raise additional equity financing or undertake certain potential business transactions. As of December 31, 2007, only 894,767 shares of our authorized common stock remained available for issuance (excluding shares that have been reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants). While we intend to seek approval of an increase in our authorized capital stock at or prior to the next annual meeting of stockholders, we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary approval. Unless and until we obtain approval of an increase in our authorized capital stock, our ability to raise additional equity financing or pursue certain business opportunities that would entail the issuance of our shares, will be restricted. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact our stock price. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, pursuant to an effective registration statement or otherwise, could decrease the price of our common stock. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced substantial fluctuations and could continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; • announcements about us or about our competitors, including introductions of new products; 16 • litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • conditions in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; • governmental regulation and legislation; and • change in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in a way that is disproportionate to our operating performance. The stock markets in general, and the American Stock Exchange and the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnological companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors could reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 