ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net income. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on our interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of our deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for our products and services. We are subject to IRR to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. 34 In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. Some of our borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called prior to their contractual maturity. This would generally occur during periods of rising interest rates. If this were to occur, we would need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such borrowings. If we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. The Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, reduced the federal funds rate by 100 basis points during the second half of 2007 and then an additional 400+ basis points during 2008 bringing the target rate to 0.00% to 0.25%. We cannot predict future FOMC or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. No assurance can be given that further changes in interest rates or further increases in mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2008, $1.39 billion of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. In general, as interest rates rise, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate securities portfolio will decrease. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the case of equity securities, such as our Freddie Mac preferred stock, which have no stated maturity, the declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. We have, in the past, recorded OTTI charges. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. 35 Declines in the market value of our common stock may have a material effect on the value of our reporting unit which could result in a goodwill impairment charge and adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of our goodwill totaled $185.2 million. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test on September 30, 2008 and determined the fair value of our reporting unit to be in excess of its carrying amount. Accordingly, as of our annual impairment test date, and through December 31, 2008, there was no indication of goodwill impairment. However, as economic conditions have worsened in our markets, our stock price has declined subsequent to December 31, 2008. At January 31, 2009, our market capitalization was less than our total stockholders’ equity. We considered this and other factors in our goodwill impairment analysis as of December 31, 2008. No assurance can be given that we will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in 2009. However, our tangible capital ratio and Astoria Federal’s regulatory capital ratios would not be affected by this potential non-cash expense since goodwill is not included in these calculations. Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area and nationally. Our retail banking and a significant portion of our lending business (approximately 42% of our one-to-four family and 93% of our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolios at December 31, 2008) are concentrated in the New York metropolitan area, which includes New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and locally. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the ongoing economic recession, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. At December 31, 2008, the average loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage loan portfolio was less than 65% based on current principal balances and original appraised values. However, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as we have experienced significant declines in real estate values in all markets in which we lend. We have experienced increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs in 2008. Our non-performing loans, which are comprised primarily of mortgage loans, increased $170.5 million to $238.6 million, or 1.43% of total loans, at December 31, 2008, from $68.1 million, or 0.42% of total loans, at December 31, 2007. Our net loan charge-offs totaled $28.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our provision for loan losses totaled $69.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a residential lender, we are particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. Significant increases in job losses and unemployment will have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. A continuation or further deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in further increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations. Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Additionally over the past several years, various large out-of-state financial institutions have entered the New York metropolitan area market. 36 All are our competitors to varying degrees. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. We also face competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Price competition for loans and deposits could result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow our loan and deposit balances. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. Multi-family and commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. While we are primarily a one-to-four family mortgage lender, we also originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2008, $2.91 billion, or 18%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans and $941.1 million, or 6%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one-to-four family loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. We have originated multi-family and commercial real estate loans in areas other than the New York metropolitan area. At December 31, 2008, loans in states other than New York, New Jersey and Connecticut comprised 7% of the total multi-family and commercial real estate loan portfolio. We could be subject to additional risks with respect to multi-family and commercial real estate lending in areas other than the New York metropolitan area since we have less experience in these areas with this type of lending and less direct oversight of the local market and the borrowers’ operations. While we continue to originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans, we do not believe that the current real estate market and economic environment support aggressively pursuing multi-family and commercial real estate loans given the additional risks associated with this type of lending. As of December 31, 2008, we are only offering to originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans to select customers in New York and New Jersey. The market for multi-family and commercial real estate loans does and will continue to change. Changes in market conditions may result in our election to pursue the originations of such loans in the future, including our resumption of originations outside of New York and New Jersey. Astoria Federal’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to us is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments due on our debt obligations. We are a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of our operating assets are owned by Astoria Federal. We rely primarily on dividends from Astoria Federal to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by Astoria Federal directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Astoria Federal must file a notice with the OTS at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. However, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then Astoria Federal must file an application to receive the approval of the OTS for a proposed capital distribution. During 2008, we were required to file applications with the OTS for proposed capital distributions and we anticipate that in 2009 we will continue to be required to file such applications for proposed capital distributions. 37 In addition, Astoria Federal may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the OTS notified Astoria Federal that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA, an insured depository institution such as Astoria Federal is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the FDIA). Payment of dividends by Astoria Federal also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Based on Astoria Federal’s current financial condition, we do not expect the regulatory limitations will have any impact on our ability to obtain dividends from Astoria Federal. However, there can be no assurance that Astoria Federal will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, Astoria Federal is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates. We are considered an affiliate of Astoria Federal. These restrictions prevent affiliates of Astoria Federal, including us, from borrowing from Astoria Federal, unless various types of collateral secure the loans. Federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus. If we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from Astoria Federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the DIF and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for Astoria Federal, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on Astoria Federal or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets (including mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments) from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury, the FRB and the FDIC issued a joint statement announcing additional steps aimed at stabilizing the financial markets. First, 38 the Treasury announced the CPP, a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program available to qualifying financial institutions that sell preferred shares to the Treasury (to be funded from the $700 billion authorized for troubled asset purchases.) Second, the FDIC announced that its Board of Directors, under the authority to prevent “systemic risk” in the U.S. banking system, approved the TLGP, which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by permitting the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions under the Debt Guarantee Program and (2) fully insure non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of dollar amount, under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Third, to further increase access to funding for businesses in all sectors of the economy, the FRB announced further details of its Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market. We currently participate in the TLGP, but not the CPP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration, the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation, and the current level of foreclosure activities, may result in increased charge-offs which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC recently adopted a restoration plan and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking and request for comment that would initially raise the assessment rate schedule, uniformly across all four risk categories into which the FDIC assigns insured institutions, by seven basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning on January 1, 2009. Under the proposed plan, beginning with the second quarter of 2009, the initial base assessment rates will range from 10 to 45 basis points depending on an institution’s risk category, with adjustments resulting in increased assessment rates for institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and brokered deposits. Under the proposal the FDIC may continue to adopt actual rates that are higher without further notice-and-comment rulemaking subject to certain limitations. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could continue to raise insurance assessment rates in the future. The increased deposit insurance premiums proposed by the FDIC are expected to result in a significant increase in our non-interest expense, which will have a material impact on our results of operations beginning in 2009. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 