ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net income. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on our interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of our deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for our products and services. We are subject to IRR to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. At December 31, 2013, $700.0 million of our borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called during the 2014 first quarter and on a quarterly basis thereafter. This would generally occur during periods of rising interest rates. If this were to occur, we would need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such 39 Table of Contents borrowings. If we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. Although we cannot predict future Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change, the FOMC reaffirmed its view that an accommodative monetary policy stance will remain appropriate for a considerable period of time. This is a continuation of their efforts of the past few years during which we have seen historic lows on mortgage interest rates and elevated mortgage loan prepayments. While this may continue, a flat U.S. Treasury yield curve adversely impacts our net interest rate spread and net interest margin. No assurance can be given that changes in interest rates or mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area and nationally. Our retail banking and a significant portion of our lending business (approximately 47% of our residential and substantially all of our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolios at December 31, 2013) are concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, both nationally and locally. Financial institutions continue to be affected by continued softness in the housing and real estate markets. Depressed real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the current economic environment, including elevated unemployment levels, have had an adverse effect on our borrowers, which has adversely affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future, as well as adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, depressed real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our loans. At December 31, 2013, the average loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage loan portfolio was less than 57% based on current principal balances and original appraised values. However, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as we have experienced significant declines in real estate values in all markets in which we lend. As a residential lender, we are particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. Significant increases in job losses and unemployment have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. Continued weakness or deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations. Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. We also face competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from 40 Table of Contents other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Price competition for loans and deposits could result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow our loan and deposit balances. We may not be able to fully execute on our new business initiatives which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have historically been a community-oriented retail bank offering traditional deposit products and focusing on residential mortgage lending. However, the current economic environment has made it difficult for us to profitably grow our business in the same manner as it has in the past. Accordingly, we continue to implement strategies to grow other loan categories to diversify earning assets and to increase low cost core deposits. These strategies include continued reliance on our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage lending operations and, over time, significantly expanding our business banking operations. Our business banking initiative includes focusing on small and middle market businesses, with an emphasis on attracting clients from larger competitors. We continue to explore opportunities to selectively expand our physical presence, consisting presently of our branch network of 85 locations plus our dedicated business banking office opened during the 2013 third quarter in midtown Manhattan, into other prime locations in Manhattan and on Long Island from which to better serve and build our business banking relationships. There are costs, risks and uncertainties associated with the development, implementation and execution of these new initiatives, including the investment of time and resources, the possibility that these initiatives will be unprofitable and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these initiatives. In addition, our ability to successfully execute on these new initiatives will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain talented individuals to help manage these initiatives and the existence of satisfactory market conditions that will allow us to profitably grow these businesses. Our potential inability to successfully execute these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We expect our non-interest expense to increase in connection with the increased staff related to these initiatives and the potential addition of new branches. We anticipate realizing these costs in advance of realizing increased revenues and deposit growth from these initiatives. Multi-family and commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our policy generally has been to originate multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans in the New York metropolitan area. At December 31, 2013, multi-family mortgage loans totaled $3.30 billion, or 26% of our total loan portfolio, and commercial real estate mortgage loans totaled $813.0 million, or 7% of our total loan portfolio. Our combined multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolio increased $928.8 million, or 29%, from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013. Multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. At December 31, 2013, non-performing multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans totaled $20.4 million, or 0.50% of our total portfolio of multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans. We have originated multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans in areas other than the New York metropolitan area. At December 31, 2013, loans in states other than New York, New Jersey and Connecticut comprised 1% of the total multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolio. We could be subject to additional risks with respect to multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage lending in areas other than the New York metropolitan area since we have less experience in these areas with this type of lending and less direct oversight of the local market and the borrowers’ operations. 41 Table of Contents Astoria Federal’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to us is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments due on our debt obligations. We are a unitary savings and loan holding company currently regulated by the FRB and almost all of our operating assets are owned by Astoria Federal. We rely primarily on dividends from Astoria Federal to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations. The OCC regulates all capital distributions by Astoria Federal directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, Astoria Federal must file a notice with the OCC at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. If the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then Astoria Federal must file an application to receive the approval of the OCC for a proposed capital distribution. During 2013, Astoria Federal was not required to file such applications, but was required to, and did, notify the OCC of its intent to pay dividends, to which the OCC did not object. Astoria Federal must also provide notice to the FRB at least 30 days prior to declaring a dividend. In addition, Astoria Federal may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the OCC notified Astoria Federal that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA, an insured depository institution such as Astoria Federal is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the FDIA). Payment of dividends by Astoria Federal also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the OCC if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Furthermore, capital standards imposed on us and similarly situated institutions have been and continue to be refined by bank regulatory agencies under the Reform Act. Deterioration of economic conditions and further changes to regulatory guidance could result in revised capital standards that may indicate the need for us or Astoria Federal to maintain greater capital positions, which could lead to limitations in dividend payments to us by Astoria Federal. There can be no assurance that Astoria Federal will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. If we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from Astoria Federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations. In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, Astoria Federal is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates. We are considered an affiliate of Astoria Federal. These restrictions prevent affiliates of Astoria Federal, including us, from borrowing from Astoria Federal, unless various types of collateral secure the loans. Federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus. The Reform Act imposes further restrictions on transactions with affiliates and extensions of credit to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders, by, among other things, expanding covered transactions to include securities lending, repurchase agreement and derivatives activities with affiliates. 42 Table of Contents We are subject to regulatory requirements and limitations that may impact our ability to pay future dividends. We are currently required to file an application with the FRB prior to declaring a cash dividend on our capital stock. The application must evidence our compliance with applicable FRB guidance regarding payment of dividends. The supervisory guidance issued by the FRB states that we should either eliminate, defer or significantly reduce dividends if (1) our net income available to common shareholders over the past year is insufficient to fully fund a dividend, (2) our prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with our capital needs and our overall current or prospective financial condition or (3) we will not meet, or are in danger of not meeting, our minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the FRB, OCC, CFPB and FDIC. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the DIF and our depositors, as well as other consumers and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, or the failure to develop, implement and comply with corrective action plans to address any identified areas of noncompliance, may result in the assessment of fines and penalties and the commencement of informal or formal regulatory enforcement actions against us. Other negative consequences also can result from such failures, including regulatory restrictions on our activities, reputational damage, restrictions on the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities and increases in our costs of doing business. Increases in our costs of doing business may include increased salaries and benefits expenses associated with hiring additional employees, incurring fees and expenses for outside services, such as consulting and legal advice, and costs associated with enhancing or acquiring systems and technological infrastructure to strengthen our regulatory compliance program. The occurrence of one or more of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the costs and burden of compliance have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for Astoria Federal, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on Astoria Federal or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations. The regulatory reform legislation that became effective in 2011 has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on our operations and capital requirements. As a result of the financial crisis which occurred in the banking and financial markets commencing in the second half of 2007, the overall bank regulatory climate is now marked by caution, conservatism and a 43 Table of Contents focus on compliance and risk management. We expect to continue to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the Agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. In addition, there are many provisions of the Reform Act which are to be implemented through regulations that have not yet been adopted by the Agencies, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the effect that such provisions will ultimately have. In addition to the creation of the CFPB, we believe the following provisions of the Reform Act have had or will have the most impact on us: · The assumption by the OCC of regulatory authority over all federal savings associations, such as Astoria Federal, and the acquisition by the FRB of regulatory authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such as Astoria Financial Corporation, as well as all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. Although the laws and regulations currently applicable to us generally have not changed by virtue of the elimination of the OTS (except to the extent such laws have been modified by the Reform Act), the application of these laws and regulations may vary as administered by the OCC and the FRB. · The significant roll back of the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that was enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks. As a result, we are subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws can be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. · The establishment of consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies, as discussed below. · The increase in the minimum DRR for the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by September 30, 2020, and the requirement that deposit insurance assessments be based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases, had the effect of substantially increasing our deposit insurance premiums. New and future rulemaking from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may have a material effect on our operations and operating costs. The CFPB has the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations and, with respect to institutions of our size, has exclusive examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to such laws and regulations. As an independent bureau within the FRB, the CFPB may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies. Pursuant to the Reform Act, the CFPB issued a series of final rules in January 2013 related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing. These final rules, most provisions of which became effective January 10, 2014, prohibit creditors, such as Astoria Federal, from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer’s ability to repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules restrict the application of prepayment penalties and compensation practices relating to mortgage loan underwriting. Compliance with these rules will likely increase our overall regulatory compliance costs and required us to change our underwriting practices. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject Astoria Federal to increased potential liability related to its residential loan origination activities. 44 Table of Contents As a result of the Reform Act and recent rulemaking, we will become subject to more stringent capital requirements. Pursuant to the Reform Act, the Agencies adopted the Final Capital Rules in July 2013 to update the Agencies’ general risk-based capital and leverage capital requirements to incorporate agreements reflected in the Basel III capital standards as well as the requirements of the Reform Act. Among other things, the Final Capital Rules establish a new minimum common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and increase the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4.0% to 6.0%. In addition, the Final Capital Rules add a requirement to maintain a minimum Conservation Buffer, composed of common equity Tier 1 capital, of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets and provide that the failure to maintain the minimum Conservation Buffer will result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers. The Final Capital Rules are described in more detail in Item 1, “Business - Regulation and Supervision - Capital Requirements.” While we are continuing to prepare for the impact of the Final Capital Rules, there can be no assurance that the Final Capital Rules will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to meet the established capital requirements could result in the FRB placing limitations or conditions on our activities or restricting the commencement of new activities, and such failure could subject us to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities, including limiting our ability to pay dividends; issuing a directive to increase our capital; and terminating our FDIC deposit insurance. Our ability to originate residential mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. government and GSEs in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for residential mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the economic crisis, which has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low. In addition, the U.S. Congress has expanded the conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to continue to be acquired by the GSEs. As a result, more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanded conforming loan limits and were refinanced into conforming fixed rate mortgages which we originate but do not retain for portfolio. Our residential mortgage loan repayments have remained at elevated levels and outpaced our loan production as a result of these factors, making it difficult for us to grow our residential mortgage loan portfolio and balance sheet. The ultimate resolution of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may materially impact our results of operations. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are under conservatorship with the Federal Housing Finance Agency. In February 2011, the Obama administration presented the U.S. Congress with a report of its proposals for reforming America’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the U.S. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. The report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (1) a system with U.S. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of borrowers; (2) a system similar to (1) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (3) a system where the U.S. government offers catastrophic reinsurance for the securities of a targeted range of mortgages behind significant private capital. We cannot be certain if or when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the U.S. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will 45 Table of Contents not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2013, $401.7 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. In general, as interest rates rise, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate securities portfolio will decrease. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax effect, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to not sell the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income, except for the amount of the total other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, for a debt security that does not represent credit losses which is recognized in other comprehensive income/loss, net of applicable taxes. We have, in the past, recorded OTTI charges. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. Declines in the market value of our common stock may have a material effect on the value of our reporting unit which could result in a goodwill impairment charge and adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2013, the carrying amount of our goodwill totaled $185.2 million. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2013 and determined there was no goodwill impairment as of our annual impairment test date. We would test our goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount. No events have occurred and no circumstances have changed since our annual impairment test date that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount. Our market capitalization is less than our total stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2013. We considered this and other factors in our goodwill impairment analyses. No assurance can be given that we will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in a subsequent period. However, our tangible capital ratio and Astoria Federal’s regulatory capital ratios would not be affected by this potential non-cash expense. A natural disaster could harm our business. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate, which 46 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of a natural disaster could result in one or more of the following: (1) an increase in loan delinquencies; (2) an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; (3) a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or (4) a decrease in the value of the collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. The occurrence of any failure, breach or interruption in service involving our systems or those of our service providers could damage our reputation, cause losses, increase our expenses, result in a loss of customers, increase regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possibly financial liability, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits and our loans. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. In addition, breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our confidential or other information or the confidential or other information of our customers, clients or counterparties. If one or more of such events were to occur, the confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks could potentially be jeopardized, or could otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers, clients or counterparties. This could cause us significant reputational damage or result in our experiencing significant losses. Furthermore, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. We also may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. We have discussed and worked with our customers, clients and counterparties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of these constituents, and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of such information. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. Our stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. The processes we use to estimate the effects of changing interest rates, real estate values and economic indicators such as unemployment on our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be 47 Table of Contents inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. If the models we use in the process of managing our interest rate and other risks prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, we could incur increased or unexpected losses which, in turn, could adversely affect our earnings and capital. Furthermore, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not meet with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress testing receiving a failing grade. In addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests could preclude or delay our ability to grow through acquisition and could lead to a reduction in our quarterly cash dividends. Many aspects of our operations are dependent upon the soundness of other financial intermediaries. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, execution of transactions or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 