ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net income. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on our interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of our deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for our products and services. We are subject to IRR to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. At December 31, 2009, $2.93 billion of our borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called prior to their contractual maturity. This would generally occur during periods of rising interest rates. If this were to occur, we would need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such borrowings. If we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. The Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, reduced the federal funds rate by 400+ basis points during 2008 bringing the target rate to 0.00% to 0.25%. We cannot predict future FOMC or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. No assurance can be given that further changes in interest rates or further increases in mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2009, $860.7 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. In general, as interest rates rise, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate securities portfolio will decrease. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax effect, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the case of equity securities, such as our Freddie Mac preferred stock, which have no stated maturity, the declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our 35 analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to not sell the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income, except for the amount of the total OTTI for a debt security that does not represent credit losses which is recognized in other comprehensive income/loss, net of applicable taxes. We have, in the past, recorded OTTI charges. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area and nationally. Our retail banking and a significant portion of our lending business (approximately 44% of our one-to-four family and 94% of our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolios at December 31, 2009) are concentrated in the New York metropolitan area, which includes New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and locally. Financial institutions continue to be affected by continued weakness in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the economic recession, including job losses, have had an adverse effect on our borrowers and their customers, which has adversely affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future, as well as adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our loans. At December 31, 2009, the average loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage loan portfolio was less than 62% based on current principal balances and original appraised values. However, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as we have experienced significant declines in real estate values in all markets in which we lend. We have experienced significant increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs in 2009. Our non-performing loans, which are comprised primarily of mortgage loans, increased $170.0 million to $408.6 million, or 2.59% of total loans, at December 31, 2009, from $238.6 million, or 1.43% of total loans, at December 31, 2008. Our net loan charge-offs totaled $125.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $28.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our provision for loan losses totaled $200.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $69.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Within our loan portfolio, we had $2.05 billion of one-to-four family reduced documentation mortgage loans at December 31, 2009. As a residential lender, we are particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. Significant increases in job losses and unemployment have had a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. Continued weakness or further deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a further material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in further increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations. 36 Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. We also face competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Price competition for loans and deposits could result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow our loan and deposit balances. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. Multi-family and commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. While we are primarily a one-to-four family mortgage lender, we also originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, $2.56 billion, or 16%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans and $866.8 million, or 6%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one-to-four family mortgage loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. At December 31, 2009, non-performing multi-family and commercial real estate loans totaled $68.2 million, or 1.99% of our total portfolio of multi-family and commercial real estate loans. We have originated multi-family and commercial real estate loans in areas other than the New York metropolitan area. At December 31, 2009, loans in states other than New York, New Jersey and Connecticut comprised 6% of the total multi-family and commercial real estate loan portfolio. We could be subject to additional risks with respect to multi-family and commercial real estate lending in areas other than the New York metropolitan area since we have less experience in these areas with this type of lending and less direct oversight of the local market and the borrowers’ operations. We do not believe that the current real estate market and economic environment support aggressively pursuing multi-family and commercial real estate loans given the additional risks associated with this type of lending. As a result, we only originated $11.5 million of such loans in 2009 and as of December 31, 2009, we are only offering to originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans to select existing customers in New York. The market for multi-family and commercial real estate loans does and will continue to change. Changes in market conditions may result in our election to pursue the originations of such loans in the future, including our resumption of originations outside of New York. Astoria Federal’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to us is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments due on our debt obligations. We are a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of our operating assets are owned by Astoria Federal. We rely primarily on dividends from Astoria Federal to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by Astoria Federal 37 directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Astoria Federal must file a notice with the OTS at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. However, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then Astoria Federal must file an application to receive the approval of the OTS for a proposed capital distribution. During 2009, we were required to file applications with the OTS for proposed capital distributions and we anticipate that in 2010 we will continue to be required to file such applications for proposed capital distributions. In addition, Astoria Federal may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the OTS notified Astoria Federal that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA, an insured depository institution such as Astoria Federal is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the FDIA). Payment of dividends by Astoria Federal also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Based on Astoria Federal’s current financial condition, we do not expect the regulatory limitations will have any impact on our ability to obtain dividends from Astoria Federal. However, there can be no assurance that Astoria Federal will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, Astoria Federal is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates. We are considered an affiliate of Astoria Federal. These restrictions prevent affiliates of Astoria Federal, including us, from borrowing from Astoria Federal, unless various types of collateral secure the loans. Federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of Astoria Federal’s capital stock and surplus. If we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from Astoria Federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the DIF and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. 38 Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. During 2008 and 2009, there was unprecedented government intervention in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, including: ● The enactment of the EESA in October 2008, which gave the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury, the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets from financial institutions; ● The announcements shortly thereafter by the Treasury, the FDIC and the FRB, respectively, of (1) the Capital Purchase Program, or CPP, a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program under which qualifying financial institutions were given the ability to sell preferred shares to the Treasury, (2) the TLGP and (3) further details of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market; ● The announcement by the Treasury in February 2009 of the Capital Assistance Program, or CAP, under which qualifying financial institutions were provided access to contingent common equity provided by the U.S. government as a bridge to private capital in the future; ● The announcement by the federal banking regulators of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, or the SCAP, under which the federal banking regulators measured how much of an additional capital buffer, if any, each of the nineteen largest U.S. bank holding companies would need to establish to ensure that it would have sufficient capital to comfortably exceed minimum regulatory requirements at December 31, 2010, as a result of which many of the nineteen institutions underwent capital raising or restructuring transactions to improve their capital base; and ● The announcement by the Treasury in March 2009, in conjunction with the FDIC and the FRB, of the Public-Private Investment Program, or PPIP, which consists of two discrete components: (1) the Legacy Loan Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of commercial and residential whole loans and other assets currently held by U.S. banks, and (2) the Legacy Securities Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities initially rated AAA and currently held by financial institutions, as defined under the EESA. We currently participate in the TLGP, but we did not participate in the CPP, the CPFF or the CAP, and we do not expect to participate in either PPIP program. Although it appears that there has been some stabilization of the U.S. financial markets as a result of the foregoing programs and other actions taken by the U.S. government, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that such programs or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets and the economy in the future. The financial market and economic conditions that existed during 2008 and 2009 have had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, and to the extent that such conditions continue or worsen, could also adversely affect our business, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 39 The potential adoption of significant aspects of proposed regulatory reform legislation may have a material effect on our operations. On December 11, 2009, the House of Representatives passed the Reform Bill. The Reform Bill is intended to address perceived weaknesses in the U.S. financial regulatory system and prevent future economic and financial crises. The Reform Bill, among other things, would create three new governmental agencies: the Financial Services Oversight Council, the Federal Insurance Office and the CFPA. The CFPA would have the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations. In addition, the Reform Bill would establish the Division within the OCC to abolish the OTS and transfer its functions and personnel to the Division. The Reform Bill preserves the federal thrift charter for thrifts, such as Astoria Federal. Most significantly for us, the Reform Bill contains provisions which would result in thrift holding companies, such as Astoria Financial Corporation, becoming bank holding companies subject to consolidated capital requirements, Bank Holding Company Act limitations and supervision by the FRB. Similar legislation is being currently considered by the Senate’s Banking Committee. The Senate’s proposed legislation contemplates elimination of the federal thrift charter with federal thrifts being regulated by a proposed new federal banking agency. The exact requirements and timing of any final legislation cannot be determined at this time. If the more significant provisions of the Reform Bill or the Senate’s proposed legislation become final, our operations would be significantly affected. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate schedule may have a further material effect on our results of operations. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule which set the initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009 and provided for the following adjustments to an institution's assessment rate: (1) a decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including most senior and subordinated debt; (2) an increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. Our federal deposit insurance premiums totaled $24.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The FDIC adopted a final rule in May 2009 imposing a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. Our FDIC special assessment totaled $9.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted an amendment to the restoration plan that increases the deposit insurance assessment rate schedule uniformly across all four risk categories by three basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning January 1, 2011. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule which required insured depository institutions to prepay their projected quarterly deposit insurance assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009, together with their regular deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. Our payment on December 30, 2009 totaled $105.7 million. There is no guarantee that the higher premiums, special assessment and assessment prepayment described above will be sufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, which may necessitate further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. Any such future assessments or increases could have a further material impact on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 40 