ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered when reading this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occurs, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Much of our growth and future profitability depends on the effectiveness of our advertising spent in the Direct to consumer channel. Our marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient awareness of the program or the brand to the consumer. We may not be able to manage our advertising spend in a cost effective manner thereby increasing the cost to acquire a new customer to an elevated level that will decrease profits. We may be subject to health related claims from our customers A customer that suffers health problems may allege that the Medifast program contributed to the ailment. The Company is not currently the subject of any such claims; however, we would defend ourselves vigorously against such accusations. Regardless of the ultimate outcome, defending against such claims would be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations. A competitor or new entrant into the market may develop a product and program similar to ours Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have more financial resources to develop new products and programs. Our business could be affected if one of our competitors or a new entrant to the market develops similar products and programs through similar marketing channels. This could result in lower sales as well as pricing competition which could adversely affect the Company’s results from operations. New fad diets or pharmaceutical solutions could put us at a competitive disadvantage The weight loss industry is subject to fad diets. The Atkins craze hit the U.S. several years ago and had an impact on many weight loss companies. Another fad diet could sweep the nation or consumer preferences could change. Our failure to adapt or respond quickly enough to these changes could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, pharmaceutical companies are constantly trying to develop safe, effective, drugs that lead to weight loss. If successful, many dieters could perceive this to be easier than the Medifast program and this would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to compete could be negatively affected in the event we fail to protect our brand names, trademarks or other intellectual property Because our business relies heavily on direct to consumer models, brand awareness is an important factor in our sales strategy. Failure to protect our brand or maintain an image of good standing with the public could result in a negative effect on our operations. Additionally, failure to protect our intellectual property could result in the arrival of a similar competitor which could reduce our competitive edge or decrease our market share. The business may grow too quickly for the current infrastructure to handle If our advertising is extremely successful and our Take Shape for Life relationship marketing division sees a large uptick in recruitment we may be unable to handle the growth from an operational perspective. Increasing demands on our infrastructure could cause long hold times in the call center as well as delays on our website. In addition, there could be delays in order processing, packaging and shipping. We could run out of a majority of our inventory if growth exceeded our production capacity. If these difficulties are encountered in a period of hyper-growth then our operating results could suffer. Any deficiencies or shortcomings in our information technology could prevent an efficient execution of routine business procedures We rely heavily on our IT infrastructure to support major business components. Any disruption to the integrity of this support structure including but not limited to; software, telecommunications, Electronic Resource Platform, or the Information Technology architecture as a whole could severely limit our ability to provide customers and vendors with adequate service and operating responses. In addition, our financial reporting is directly correlated with our company-wide software Microsoft Navision 4.0. Any compromise in the veracity of this system could severely alter the accuracy of our tracking, volumes, and general reporting including financial statements. 12 A disruption in the supply of raw materials or the inability of third party manufacturing for certain products could affect operating results We rely heavily on our vendors to provide quality raw materials for us to utilize in our on site manufacturing processes. Any disruption in the availability of these materials could potentially interrupt our ability to provide certain products to customers in a timely manner. Also certain products are currently manufactured through a third party. The availability of these products is prone to fluctuation dependent on the manufacturer’s ability to secure and produce a quality product that satisfies our satisfaction standards. Our stock price may experience volatility due to fluctuations in our operating results Our stock price is subject to fluctuations in response to our operating results, a competitor’s operating results, or our ability to meet stock analysts forecasts and our yearly revenue and EPS guidance. In addition, general trends in the weight-loss industry as a whole can have an affect on our stock price. These factors may have an adverse affect on the market price of our stock and cause it to fluctuate significantly. We may be subject to claims that our employees are unqualified to provide weight loss counseling Our Medifast Weight Control center division provides medical assessments and counseling to our customers. We may be subject to claims that our employees lack the proper training and qualifications to provide proper advice regarding weight loss. We could be subject to claims if an employee in one of our clinics gives inappropriate weight loss advice that results in health problems. Such claims could result in damage to our reputation and could have an affect on our operating results. Negative publicity in the weight loss industry could adversely affect our business If the press were to come out with negative media about low-calorie diets, meal replacements, or soy protein this could harm our business. Even if not directed at Medifast, this perception could be instilled in our target market and cause harm to our operating results. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate and result in a negative financial condition Certain members of our Company oversee integral components of our Company. Although we do not anticipate the departure of any key employees including but not limited to the executive management team, we cannot guarantee their tenure indefinitely in the future. Our results of operations may decline as a result of a downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence Our results of operations are highly dependent on product sales and program fees. A downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence and spending in any of our major markets could result in people curtailing their discretionary spending, which, in turn, could lead to a decrease in product sales in our Medifast Direct and Take Shape for Life divisions and a decrease in product and program fees at our Medifast Weight Control Centers and Internet product subscriptions. Any such reduction would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Business is subject to regulatory and legislative restrictions A number of laws and regulations govern our production, operation, and advertising. The FTC and certain states regulate advertising, disclosures to consumers, privacy, consumer pricing or billing arrangements, and other consumer matters. Our direct selling distribution channel is subject to risk of interpretation of certain laws pertaining to the prevention of “pyramid” or “chain sale” schemes. Although we believe we are in full compliance, should the governing body alter or enforce the law in an unanticipated way, there may be a negative result on the company’s operations. The Company’s financial reporting is subject to various laws and regulations as well, specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC. These requirements demand the Company disclose certain information and maintain specific controls to ensure fair and legal accounting practices as outlined therein. The Company has taken substantial measures to ensure compliance through routine internal and external audits. Failure to correct any flaws in internal controls may constitute a public notification of weakness and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Additionally, the Company is required to maintain a position of good standing in regards to taxation on both a Federal and State level. Failure to comply with federal and state regulations could result in additional taxes, fines, or interest due that could financially strain the company. Future laws and regulations could be unforeseen and potentially have a material negative impact on the Company. Failure to comply with any regulations of current or future authoritative entities could have a detrimental effect on the Company’s financial standing or operating results 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 