Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. Disruptions in the Worldwide Economy and the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations Adverse and uncertain economic and market conditions, particularly in the locations in which we operate, may impact customer and consumer demand for our products and our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings during economic downturns, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Consumers may also reduce the number of natural and organic products that they purchase where there are conventional alternatives, given that natural and organic products generally have higher retail prices than do their conventional counterparts. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products rather than branded products, which generally have higher retail prices than do their private label counterparts. Distributors and retailers may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to attract new customers, the financial condition of our customers and our ability to provide products that appeal to consumers at the right price. Recent global economic conditions have adversely affected our results of operations. The full impact and duration of the global economic downturn, particularly in the locations in which we operate, cannot be anticipated. While there are signs that conditions may be improving, there is no certainty that this trend will continue and that economic conditions will not deteriorate again. If the unfavorable economic conditions continue, our sales and profitability could continue to be adversely affected. Our Markets Are Highly Competitive We operate in highly competitive geographic and product markets. Numerous brands and products compete for limited retailer shelf space, where competition is based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, product innovation and promotional activity, availability and taste among other things. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels which compete with some of our products. During periods of economic uncertainty, such as we have recently experienced, consumers tend to purchase more private label products, which could reduce sales volumes of our products. Some of our markets are dominated by multinational corporations with greater resources then ours. We cannot be certain that we will successfully compete for sales to distributors or retailers that purchase from larger competitors that have greater financial, managerial, sales and technical resources. Conventional food companies, including but not limited to Campbell Soup Company, Dean Foods Company, General Mills, Inc., Groupe Danone, The J.M. Smucker Company, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle S.A., PepsiCo, Inc., Sara Lee Corporation and Unilever, PLC, and conventional personal care products companies, including but not limited to The Proctor and Gamble Company, Johnson & Johnson and Colgate-Palmolive, may be able to use their resources and scale to respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products, reducing prices - 8 - Table of Contents or increasing promotional activities. We also compete with smaller companies, which may be more innovative, able to bring new products to market faster and better able to quickly exploit and serve niche markets. As a result, we may need to increase our marketing, advertising and promotional spending to protect our existing market share, which may result in an adverse impact on our profitability. One example of the competitiveness of the markets in which we participate is in the tea portion of the beverage market. Competitive factors in the tea industry include product quality and taste, brand awareness among consumers, variety of specialty tea flavors, interesting or unique product names, product packaging and package design, supermarket and grocery store shelf space, alternative distribution channels, reputation, price, advertising and promotion. Our principal competitors on a national basis in the U.S. specialty tea market are Thomas J. Lipton Company, a division of Unilever PLC, and R.C. Bigelow, Inc. Unilever has substantially greater financial resources than we do. Additional competitors include a number of regional specialty tea companies. There may be potential entrants which are not currently in the specialty tea market who may have substantially greater resources than we do. Private label competition in the specialty tea category is currently minimal, but growing. We also compete with other manufacturers in the procurement of natural and organic product ingredients, which may be less plentiful in the open market than conventional product ingredients. This competition may increase in the future if consumer demand for natural and organic products increases. This could cause our expenses to increase or could limit the amount of product that we can manufacture and sell. Consumer Preferences for Our Products Are Difficult to Predict and May Change Our business is primarily focused on sales of natural and organic products in markets geared to consumers of natural foods, including specialty teas, non-dairy beverages, infant and toddler foods, cereals, breakfast bars, canned and aseptic soups, nut butters, cooking oils and personal care products which, if consumer demand for such categories were to decrease, could harm our business. In addition, we have other product categories, such as meat alternative products, medically-directed food products and other specialty food items which are subject to evolving consumer preferences. Consumer trends could change based on a number of possible factors, including: • dietary habits and nutritional values, such as fat content or sodium levels, • a shift in preference from organic to non-organic and from natural products to non-natural products; • the availability of competing private label products offered by retailers; and • economic factors and social trends. A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products or our failure to maintain our current market position could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brands in our markets, which could harm our business. While we continue to diversify our product offerings, developing new products entails risks and we cannot be certain that demand for our products will continue at current levels or increase in the future. Our Growth is Dependent on Our Ability to Introduce New Products and Improve Existing Products Our growth depends in part on our ability to generate and implement improvements to our existing products and to introduce new products to consumers. The success of our innovation and product improvement effort is affected by our ability to anticipate changes in consumers preferences, the level of funding that can be made available, the technical capability of our research and development staff in developing and testing product prototypes, including complying with governmental regulations, and the success of our management in introducing the resulting improvements in a timely manner. If we are unsuccessful in implementing product improvements that satisfy the demands of consumers, our business could be harmed. Our Acquisition Strategy Exposes Us to Risk, Including Our Ability to Integrate the Brands That We Acquire We intend to continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of new brands, both in the United States and internationally. Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring brands with products that complement our existing product mix. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully: • identify suitable acquisition candidates; - 9 - Table of Contents • negotiate identified acquisitions on terms acceptable to us; or • integrate acquisitions that we complete. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions in the future, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. The success of acquisitions we make will be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate those brands, including our ability to realize potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings, some of which may involve operational changes. We cannot be certain: • as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired brand; • that a business combination will enhance our competitive position and business prospects; • that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of a business combination; or • that, with respect to our acquisitions outside the United States, we will not be affected by, among other things, exchange rate risk. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in: • integrating an acquired brand’s distribution channels with our own; • coordinating sales force activities of an acquired brand or in selling the products of an acquired brand to our customer base; or • integrating an acquired brand into our management information systems or integrating an acquired brand’s products into our product mix. Additionally, integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations will require management resources and may divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, our business could be harmed. We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Chief Executive Officer We are highly dependent upon the services of Irwin D. Simon, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe Mr. Simon’s reputation as our founder and his expertise and knowledge in the natural and organic products market are critical factors in our continuing growth. His relationships with customers and suppliers are not easily found elsewhere in the natural and organic products industry. The loss of the services of Mr. Simon could harm our business. We Rely on Independent Distributors for a Substantial Portion of Our Sales We rely upon sales made by or through non-affiliated distributors to customers. In addition to our own retail sales organization, we utilize food brokers to act as selling agents representing specific brands on a non-exclusive basis under oral or written agreements generally terminable at any time on 30 days’ notice. They receive a percentage of net sales as compensation. Distributors purchase directly for their own account for resale. One distributor, United Natural Foods, Inc., which redistributes products to natural foods supermarkets, independent natural retailers and other retailers, accounted for approximately 21%, 19% and 20% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In January 2010, KeHE Distributors, LLC acquired Tree of Life Inc., who together accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The loss of, or business disruption at, one or more of these distributors or brokers may harm our business. Failure of a broker to effectively represent the Company’s products to retailers may also harm our business. If we are required to obtain additional or alternative distribution and food brokerage agreements or arrangements in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Our inability to enter into satisfactory brokerage agreements may inhibit our ability to implement our business plan or to establish markets necessary to develop products successfully. - 10 - Table of Contents Consolidation of Customers or the Loss of a Significant Customer Could Negatively Impact our Sales and Profitability Retail customers, such as supermarkets and food distributors in the U.S. and the European Union continue to consolidate. This consolidation has produced larger, more sophisticated organizations that are able to resist price increases or demand increased promotional programs, as well as operate with lower inventories, decrease the number of brands that they carry and increase their emphasis on private label products, which could negatively impact our business. The consolidation of retail customers also increases the risk that a significant adverse impact on their business could have a corresponding material adverse impact on us. Our largest customer, United Natural Foods, Inc., a distributor, accounted for approximately 21%, 19% and 20% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the past three fiscal years. In January 2010, KeHE Distributors, LLC acquired Tree of Life Inc., who together accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. These customers do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts. The loss of any large customer or the cancellation of any business from a large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profitability. Loss of One or More of Our Manufacturing or Distribution Facilities or Independent Co-Packers Could Harm Our Business For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 40%, 50% and 48%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at our own manufacturing facilities. An interruption in or the loss of operations at one or more of these facilities, or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as an alternate source of production could be secured. In addition, the success of our business depends, in large part, upon the establishment and maintenance of a strong distribution network. We utilize distribution centers which are managed by third parties. Activity at these distribution centers could be disrupted by a number of factors, including natural disasters and labor issues. Any extended disruption in the distribution of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 60%, 50% and 52%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at independent co-packers. In some cases an individual co-packer may produce all of our requirements for a particular brand. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms in a timely manner. Therefore, the loss of one or more co-packers, or our failure to retain co-packers for newly acquired products or brands, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Tea Ingredients Are Subject to Import Risk Our tea brand purchases its ingredients from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers, importers and growers, with the majority of those purchases occurring outside of the United States. We maintain long-term relationships with most of our suppliers. Purchase arrangements with ingredient suppliers are generally made annually and in U.S. currency. Purchases are made through purchase orders or contracts, and price, delivery terms and product specifications vary. Our botanical purchasers visit major suppliers around the world annually to procure ingredients and to assure quality by observing production methods and providing product specifications. Many ingredients are presently grown in countries where labor-intensive cultivation is possible, and where we often must educate the growers about product standards. We perform laboratory analyses on incoming ingredient shipments for the purpose of assuring that they meet our quality standards and those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). - 11 - Table of Contents Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as foreign political situations, embargoes, changes in national and world economic conditions, currency fluctuations, forecasting adequate need of seasonal raw material ingredients and climate conditions. We take steps and will continue to take steps intended to lessen the risk of an interruption of botanical supplies, including identification of alternative sources and maintenance of appropriate inventory levels. We have, in the past, maintained sufficient supplies for our ongoing operations. Our failure to maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or to find new suppliers, observe production standards for our foreign-procured products or continue our supply of botanicals from foreign sources could harm our business. Our Future Results of Operations May be Adversely Affected by Increased Fuel and Commodity Costs and the Availability of Organic Ingredients Many aspects of our business have been, and may continue to be, directly affected by the rising cost of fuel and commodities. Increased fuel costs translate into increased costs for the products and services we receive from our third party providers including, but not limited to, increased distribution costs for our products and increased packaging costs. Agricultural commodities and ingredients are the principal inputs used in our products. These items are subject to price volatility which can be caused by commodity market fluctuations, crop yields, weather conditions, changes in currency exchange rates, imbalances between supply and demand and government programs among other factors. Increased demand for organic ingredients may result in our inability to procure adequate supplies, which may result in our inability to satisfy customer orders. As the cost of doing business increases, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers and, therefore, any such cost increases may adversely affect our earnings. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our International Sales and Operations, Including Foreign Currency Risks Operating in international markets involves exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, which are volatile at times. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is complex because such changes are often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. Consequently, isolating the effect of changes in currency does not incorporate these other important economic factors. These changes, if material, could cause adjustments to our financing and operating strategies. During fiscal 2010, approximately 21.3% of our net sales were generated outside the United States, while such sales outside the U.S. were 18.5% of net sales in 2009 and 22.2% in 2008. Sales from outside our U.S. markets may continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: • periodic economic downturns and unstable political environments; • price and foreign currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in the relative values of currencies; • unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • compliance with applicable foreign laws; • the imposition of tariffs or quotas; • changes in tax laws; and • difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable and managing distributors. Our Inability to Use Our Trademarks Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We believe that brand awareness is a significant component in a consumer’s decision to purchase one product over another in the highly competitive food, beverage, personal care and household products industries. Although we endeavor to protect our trademarks and trade names, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, - 12 - Table of Contents or that third parties will not challenge our right to use one or more of our trademarks or trade names. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to the marketing and sale of our products and that the inability to utilize certain of these names could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we market products under brands licensed under trademark license agreements, including Linda McCartney®, the Sesame Street name and logo and other Sesame Street intellectual property on certain of our Earth’s Best® products and our Martha Stewart Clean brand and Martha Stewart baking products. We believe that these trademarks have significant value and are instrumental in our ability to create and sustain demand for and to market those products offerings. We cannot assure you that these trademarks license agreements will remain in effect and enforceable or that any license agreements, upon expiration, can be renewed on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, any future disputes concerning these trademarks license agreements may cause us to incur significant litigation costs or force us to suspend use of the disputed trademarks and suspend sales of products using such trademarks. Our Food, Beverage, Personal Care and Household Products Must Comply with Government Regulations We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States, Canada and other countries where we manufacture, distribute and/or sell our food, beverage, personal care, and household products. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our operations, including the manufacture, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products. New or revised government laws and regulations as well as increased enforcement by government agencies could result in additional compliance costs; civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, withdrawals, recalls or seizures; confiscations as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of our business. We comply with regulatory requirements set forth by the FDA, USDA, Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), Canadian Food Inspection Agency (“CFIA”) as well as state and local government agencies. Several proposed regulatory activities may have an adverse effect on our business: • FDA Food Safety Modernization Act of 2009 is expected to grant greater authority to the FDA to monitor the safety of our national food supply. Our food manufacturing facilities adhere to many of the strict standards being proposed, although the final standards may change. • The USDA’s National Organic Program (“NOP”) has been charged with defining organic standards for the personal care industry and reevaluating the use and certification of accessory nutrients in organic foods in order to further differentiate the organic industry. • Additionally, the growth in international markets requires organic equivalence agreements and tariff codes to be established across the globe and specifically in Asia to reduce and potentially eliminate trade barriers for US organic producers and manufacturers. • The Safe Cosmetics Act of 2010 proposes a complete regulatory review and overhaul for the chemicals used in personal care products and for potential change in labeling requirements. • The state legislative environment, specifically the California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, or Proposition 65, lists certain substances that may have a link to cancer or birth defects. For example, if research being conducted across the industry is unsuccessful in finding process modifications to reduce exposure to acrylamide, then warning labels would be required on food and beverage products sold in California. Additionally, some states will ban Bisphenol A (“BPA”) from certain packages for which there are currently no alternative materials available. We do not know whether or not any of the above will be realized and/or to what degree these proposed regulatory changes may impact our domestic and international food, personal care and household products. Any change in manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements for our products may lead to an increase in costs, interruptions or delays, any of which could adversely effect the operations and financial condition of our business. If the Reputation of One or More of Our Leading Brands Erodes Significantly, it Could Have a Material Impact on Our Results of Operations. Our financial success is directly dependent on the consumer perception of our brands. The success of our brands may suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, our results could be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues or the Company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner. - 13 - Table of Contents We May be Subject to Significant Liability Should the Consumption of Any of Our Products Cause Illness or Physical Harm The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury or illness to consumers. Such injuries may result from inadvertent mislabeling, tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall or withdraw products, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our business. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall or market withdrawal, product liability claims might be asserted against us. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities and those of our co-packers comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness in the future we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or physical harm could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and consumers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We Rely on Independent Certification for a Number of Our Food Products We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “kosher,” to differentiate our products from others. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our market position as a natural and organic food company, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials, or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic. Similarly, we can lose our “kosher” certification if a manufacturing plant and raw materials do not meet the requirements of the appropriate kosher supervision organization. Due to the Seasonality of Many of Our Products and Other Factors, Our Results of Operations Are Subject to Quarterly Fluctuations Our tea brand manufactures and markets hot tea products and, as a result, our quarterly results of operations reflect seasonal trends resulting from increased demand for our hot tea products in the cooler months of the year. In addition, some of our other products (e.g., baking and cereal products and soups) also show stronger sales in the cooler months while our snack food product lines and certain of our prepared food products are stronger in the warmer months. Quarterly fluctuations in our sales volume and results of operations are due to a number of factors relating to our business, including the timing of trade promotions, advertising and consumer promotions and other factors, such as seasonality, inclement weather and unanticipated increases in labor, commodity, energy or other operating costs. The impact on sales volume and results of operations due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, you should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as indications of our future performance. The Profitability of Our Operations is Dependent on Our Ability to Manage Our Inventory Our profit margins depend on our ability to manage our inventory efficiently. As part of our effort to manage our inventory more efficiently, we carried out stock-keeping unit (“SKU’) rationalization programs in fiscal 2009 and 2008, which resulted in the discontinuation of numerous lower-margin or low-turnover SKUs. However, a number of factors, such as changes in customers’ inventory levels, access to shelf space and changes in consumer preferences, may lengthen the number of days we carry certain inventories, hence impeding our effort to manage our inventory efficiently. - 14 - Table of Contents An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill or Other Acquired Intangible Assets Could Materially and Adversely Affect our Consolidated Results of Operations and Net Worth As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately $715 million of goodwill and other intangible assets (primarily indefinite-lived intangible assets associated with our brands) on our balance sheet as a result of the acquisitions we have made since our inception. The value of these intangible assets depends on a variety of factors, including the success of our business, market conditions, earnings growth and expected cash flows. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or at any time when events occur which could impact the value of our reporting units or our indefinite-lived brands. Impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires considerable judgment. Our determination of whether a goodwill impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ estimated fair value with its carrying value. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred in our indefinite-lived brands is based on a comparison of the book value of the brand and its fair value. We determine the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief from royalty method. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a charge for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our consolidated earnings in the period of such charge. In addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth. During the third quarter of fiscal 2009 we recorded a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $49.6 million related to our Europe and Protein reporting units, net of $7.6 million attributed to the minority interest of HPP, and a non-cash impairment charge of $3.0 million related to a customer relationship in the United Kingdom. Our reviews in 2010 did not indicate an impairment; however, if our common stock price trades below book value per share for a sustained period, if there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or if future interim or annual impairment tests indicate an impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may have to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges which may materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. For further details, see Note 9 (“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”) to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2010. Joint Ventures That We Enter Into Present a Number of Risks and Challenges That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations As part of our business strategy, we have made minority interest investments and established joint ventures. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial and other challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies and changes in the industry, location or political environment in which these investments are located, that may arise after entering into such arrangements. We could experience financial or other setbacks if these transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution by the management of the companies underlying these investments. Any of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we are a minority equity owner in HPP. Because we do not own a majority or maintain voting control of HPP, we do not have the ability to control its policies, management or affairs. The management team of HPP could make business decisions without our consent that could impair the economic value of our investment in HPP. Any such diminution in the value of our investment could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Officers and Directors and 10% or Greater Beneficial Owners May Be Able to Control Our Actions Our officers and directors and 10% or greater beneficial owners, including the Icahn Group, beneficially owned (assuming the exercise of all stock options held by our officers and directors) approximately 18.9% of our common stock as of July 31, 2010. Accordingly, our officers and directors and 10% or greater beneficial owners may be in a position to influence the election of our directors and otherwise influence stockholder action. In addition, on July 7, 2010, we entered into an agreement with certain investment funds managed by Carl C. Icahn, or the Icahn Group (the “Icahn Group”). Pursuant to our agreement with the Icahn Group, we have approved the Icahn Group becoming the beneficial owner of 15%, but not more than 20%, of our common stock on the condition that the definition of “interested stockholder” in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law is deemed amended to substitute 20% for 15%, and Section 203, as so amended, is applicable to, and in full force and effect, for the Icahn Group and us. According to Amendment No. 3 to the Schedule 13D filed by the Icahn Group on August 10, 2010, the Icahn Group beneficially owned an aggregate of 5,650,819 shares of our common stock (including shares underlying call options held by one or more members of the Icahn Group) or 13.80% of our outstanding common stock (based upon the 40,949,630 shares of our common stock stated to be outstanding as of May 3, 2010 in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 10, 2010). As a result, the Icahn Group could increase its beneficial ownership of our common stock. Under the terms of the agreement, the Icahn Group has agreed to support our board of directors’ slate of director nominees at our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will include the two director nominees identified by the Icahn Group (“the Icahn Suggested Nominees”). In addition, so long as we are in compliance with our obligations under the agreement, the Icahn Group has agreed not to (i) become a participant in or actively assist any third party in any solicitation of proxies for use at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, (ii) encourage, advise or influence any other person or assist any third party in so encouraging, assisting or influencing any person with respect to the giving or withholding of any proxy vote at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in opposition to our slate of nominees for election as directors, (iii) present any proposal for consideration at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or (iv) grant any proxy with respect to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (other than to the named proxies included in the Company’s proxy card for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders) or deposit any of the common stock held by the Icahn Group or its affiliates in a voting trust or subject them to a voting agreement or other arrangement of similar effect with respect to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Following our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, however, the Icahn Group could be in a position to influence the election of our directors or otherwise influence stockholder action, including, without limitation, whether, with whom and the terms on which we could engage in a change in control transaction, which could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our Ability to Issue Preferred Stock May Deter Takeover Attempts Our board of directors is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of our common stock and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders - 15 - Table of Contents of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we may do so in the future under appropriate circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 