Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. The Recent Disruptions in the Worldwide Economy and the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations Economic and market conditions have deteriorated significantly in the locations in which we operate, particularly the United States, Canada and Europe, and these difficult conditions may continue to exist. This deterioration has impacted and may continue to impact customer and consumer demand for our products and our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other value offerings during economic downturns, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Consumers may also reduce the number of organic products that they purchase where there are conventional alternatives, given that organic products generally have higher retail prices than do their conventional counterparts. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products rather than branded products, which generally have higher retail prices than do their private label counterparts. Additionally, distributors and retailers may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to attract new customers and the financial condition of our customers. If the unfavorable economic conditions continue, our sales and profitability could continue to be adversely affected. Our Markets Are Highly Competitive We operate in highly competitive geographic and product markets, and some of our markets are dominated by competitors with greater resources. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, product innovation and promotional activity, among other things. We cannot be certain that we will successfully compete for sales to distributors or stores that purchase from larger, more established companies that have greater financial, managerial, sales and technical resources. In addition, we compete for limited retailer shelf space for our products. Larger competitors, such as mainstream food companies including but not limited to Campbell Soup Company, Dean Foods Company, General Mills, Inc., Groupe Danone, The J.M. Smucker Company, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle S.A., PepsiCo, Inc., Sara Lee Corporation and Unilever, PLC, and mainstream personal care products companies including but not limited to Estee Lauder Inc. and Johnson & Johnson, also may be able to benefit from economies of scale, pricing advantages or the introduction of new products that compete with our products. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels. We may need to increase our marketing, advertising and promotional spending to protect our existing market share, which may result in an adverse impact on our profitability. - 8 - Table of Contents One example of the competitiveness of the markets in which we participate is in the tea portion of the beverage market. Competitive factors in the tea industry include product quality and taste, brand awareness among consumers, variety of specialty tea flavors, interesting or unique product names, product packaging and package design, supermarket and grocery store shelf space, alternative distribution channels, reputation, price, advertising and promotion. Our principal competitors on a national basis in the U.S. specialty tea market are Thomas J. Lipton Company, a division of Unilever PLC, and R.C. Bigelow, Inc. Unilever has substantially greater financial resources than we do. Additional competitors include a number of regional specialty tea companies. There may be potential entrants which are not currently in the specialty tea market who may have substantially greater resources than we do. Private label competition in the specialty tea category is currently minimal, but growing. In the future, competitors may introduce other products that compete with our products and these competitive products may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also compete with other manufacturers in the procurement of natural and organic product ingredients, which may be less plentiful in the open market than conventional product ingredients. This competition may increase in the future along with increasing public demand for natural and organic products. This could cause our expenses to increase or could limit the amount of product that we can manufacture and sell. Consumer Preferences for Our Products Are Difficult to Predict and May Change A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products or our failure to maintain our current market position could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brands in our markets, which could harm our business. While we continue to diversify our product offerings, we cannot be certain that demand for our products will continue at current levels or increase in the future. Our business is primarily focused on sales of natural and organic products in markets geared to consumers of natural foods, including specialty teas, non-dairy beverages, infant and toddler foods, cereals, breakfast bars, canned and aseptic soups, nut butters, cooking oils and personal care products which, if consumer demand for such categories were to decrease, could harm our business. Consumer trends could change based on a number of possible factors, including: • nutritional values, such as a change in preference from fat free to reduced fat to no reduction in fat, • a shift in preference from organic to non-organic and from natural products to non-natural products; and • the availability of competing private label products offered by retailers. In addition, we have other product categories, such as meat alternative products, medically-directed food products and other specialty food items which are subject to evolving consumer preferences. Our Growth is Dependent on Our Ability to Introduce New Products and Improve Existing Products Our growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and implement improvements to our existing products and to introduce new products to consumers. The innovation and product improvements are affected by the level of funding that can be made available, the technical capability of our Research and Development Department in developing and testing product prototypes, and the success of our management in rolling out the resulting improvements in a timely manner. If we are unsuccessful in implementing product improvements that satisfy the demands of consumers, our business could be harmed. Our Acquisition Strategy Exposes Us to Risk We intend to continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of new brands, both in the United States and internationally. Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring brands with products that complement our existing product mix. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully: • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • negotiate identified acquisitions on terms acceptable to us; or • integrate acquisitions that we complete. - 9 - Table of Contents We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions in the future, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Our Future Success May Be Dependent on Our Ability to Integrate Brands That We Acquire Our future success may be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate new brands that we acquire, including our ability to realize potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings, some of which may involve operational changes. We cannot be certain: • as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired brand; • that a business combination will enhance our competitive position and business prospects; • that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of a business combination; or • that, with respect to our acquisitions outside the United States, we will not be affected by, among other things, exchange rate risk. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in: • integrating an acquired brand’s distribution channels with our own; • coordinating sales force activities of an acquired brand or in selling the products of an acquired brand to our customer base; or • integrating an acquired brand into our management information systems or integrating an acquired brand’s products into our product mix. Additionally, integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations will require management resources and may divert our management from our day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, our business could be harmed. We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Chief Executive Officer We are highly dependent upon the services of Irwin D. Simon, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe Mr. Simon’s reputation as our founder and his expertise and knowledge in the natural and organic products market are critical factors in our continuing growth. The loss of the services of Mr. Simon could harm our business. We Rely on Independent Brokers and Distributors for a Substantial Portion of Our Sales We rely upon sales efforts made by or through non-affiliated food brokers to distributors and other customers, in addition to our own retail sales organization. The loss of, or business disruption at, one or more of these distributors or brokers may harm our business. If we are required to obtain additional or alternative distribution and food brokerage agreements or arrangements in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. One of our distributors, United Natural Foods, Inc., which redistributes products to natural foods supermarkets, independent natural retailers and other retailers, accounted for approximately 19%, 20% and 20% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Our inability to enter into satisfactory brokerage agreements may inhibit our ability to implement our business plan or to establish markets necessary to develop products successfully. Food brokers act as selling agents representing specific brands on a non-exclusive basis under oral or written agreements generally terminable at any time on 30 days’ notice, and receive a percentage of net sales as compensation. Distributors purchase directly for their own account for resale. In addition, the success of our business depends, in large part, upon the establishment and maintenance of a strong distribution network. - 10 - Table of Contents Consolidation of Customers or the Loss of a Significant Customer Could Negatively Impact our Sales and Profits Consolidation of distributors and/or retailers may produce larger, more sophisticated organizations that could resist price increases or demand increased promotional programs, as well as operate with lower inventories and increase their emphasis on private label products, which could negatively impact our business. Our largest customer, United Natural Foods, Inc., accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. These customers do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts. The loss of any large customer or the cancellation of any business from a large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. Loss of One or More of Our Manufacturing Facilities or Independent Co-Packers Could Harm Our Business For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 49%, 47% and 46%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at our own manufacturing facilities. An interruption in or the loss of operations at one or more of these facilities, or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as an alternate source of production could be secured. During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 51%, 53% and 54%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at independent co-packers. In some cases an individual co-packer may produce all of our requirements for a particular brand. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms in a timely manner. Therefore, the loss of one or more co-packers, or our failure to retain co-packers for newly acquired products or brands, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Tea Ingredients Are Subject to Import Risk Our tea brand purchases its ingredients from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers, importers and growers, with the majority of those purchases occurring outside of the United States. We maintain long-term relationships with most of our suppliers. Purchase arrangements with ingredient suppliers are generally made annually and in U.S. currency. Purchases are made through purchase orders or contracts, and price, delivery terms and product specifications vary. Our botanical purchasers visit major suppliers around the world annually to procure ingredients and to assure quality by observing production methods and providing product specifications. Many ingredients are presently grown in countries where labor-intensive cultivation is possible, and where we often must educate the growers about product standards. We perform laboratory analyses on incoming ingredient shipments for the purpose of assuring that they meet our quality standards and those of the FDA. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as foreign political situations, embargoes, changes in national and world economic conditions, currency fluctuations, forecasting adequate need of seasonal raw material ingredients and climate conditions. We take steps and will continue to take steps intended to lessen the risk of an interruption of botanical supplies, including identification of alternative sources and maintenance of appropriate inventory levels. We have, in the past, maintained sufficient supplies for our ongoing operations. Our failure to maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or to find new suppliers, observe production standards for our foreign-procured products or continue our supply of botanicals from foreign sources could harm our business. - 11 - Table of Contents Our Future Results of Operations May be Adversely Affected by Increased Fuel and Commodity Costs and the Availability of Organic Ingredients Many aspects of our business have been, and may continue to be, directly affected by the rising cost of fuel and commodities. Increased fuel costs translate into increased costs for the products and services we receive from our third party providers including, but not limited to, increased distribution costs for our products and increased packaging costs. Commodities are subject to price volatility which can be caused by commodity market fluctuations, crop yields, changes in currency exchange rates, imbalances between supply and demand and government programs among other factors. Increased demand for organic ingredients may result in our inability to procure adequate supplies, which may result in our inability to satisfy customer orders. As the cost of doing business increases, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers and, therefore, any such cost increase may adversely affect our earnings. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our International Sales and Operations, Including Foreign Currency Risks Operating in international markets involves exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, which are volatile at times. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is complex because such changes are often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. Consequently, isolating the effect of changes in currency does not incorporate these other important economic factors. These changes, if material, could cause adjustments to our financing and operating strategies. During fiscal 2009, approximately 18.3% of our net sales were generated outside the United States, while such sales outside the U.S. were 22.0% of net sales in 2008 and 24.9% in 2007. Sales from outside our U.S. markets may continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: • periodic economic downturns and unstable political environments; • price and currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in the relative values of currencies; • unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • compliance with applicable foreign laws; and • difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable and managing distributors. Our Inability to Use Our Trademarks Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We believe that brand awareness is a significant component in a consumer’s decision to purchase one product over another in the highly competitive food, beverage and personal care industry. Although we endeavor to protect our trademarks and trade names, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, or that third parties will not challenge our right to use one or more of our trademarks or trade names. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to the marketing and sale of our products and that the inability to utilize certain of these names could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Products Must Comply with Government Regulation The USDA adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program which were fully implemented in October 2002. Amendments to Canada’s Organic Products regulations as administered by the Canada Organic Office of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency will be implemented beginning June 30, 2009. We are making the necessary changes and expect that our organic products and packaging will be in compliance by the required date. In addition, similar regulations and requirements exist in the other countries in which we market our products. We currently manufacture over 1,400 organic products worldwide which are covered by these various regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labeling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. - 12 - Table of Contents We continually monitor and modify packaging to be in compliance with the rules of the various countries where we sell our products. Our ability to meet local packaging regulations may impact our ability to sell products in these regions. Any change in labeling requirements for our products may lead to an increase in packaging costs or interruptions or delays in packaging deliveries. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been increased state legislative activity since May 2009 to ban Bis-Phenol A (BPA) from the packaging material of infant formula or baby food effective January 2011. These legislative decisions are predominantly driven by consumer perception that BPA may be carcinogenic. These actions have been taken despite the scientific evidence and general consensus of US and international government agencies that BPA is safe and does not pose a risk to human health. The state legislative actions may require us to change some of our packaging materials. Failure to do so could result in a loss of sales in the states affected. The FDA will re-review the scientific data on BPA and is expected to announce its findings by the end of November 2009. The Company has decided not to wait for these findings and is actively taking steps to find BPA-free package alternatives for its products. However, there can be no assurance that these steps will be successful. Legislation titled “The Food Safety and Enhancement Act of 2009” has been proposed in the Unites States House of Representatives. The proposed bill provides that food manufacturing facilities adhere to stricter food safety standards than is currently required. The bill has other provisions including the granting of power to the FDA to mandate product recalls. The proposed legislation will likely undergo modification in the House and the Senate before being passed and presented to the President for signature. Since our food manufacturing facilities already adhere to the stricter standards being proposed, the legislation is expected to have a minimal effect on our costs or manufacturing practices, although there can be no assurance that the proposed standards will not be changed. If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands. The success of our brands may suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, our results could be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause illness or physical harm. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury or illness to consumers. Such injuries may result from inadvertent mislabeling, tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our business. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims might be asserted against us. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities and those of our co-packers comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness in the future we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or physical harm could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and consumers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. - 13 - Table of Contents We Rely on Independent Certification for a Number of Our Food Products We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “kosher,” to differentiate our products from others. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our market position as a natural and organic food company, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials, or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic. Similarly, we can lose our “kosher” certification if a manufacturing plant and raw materials do not meet the requirements of the appropriate kosher supervision organization. Due to the Seasonality of Many of Our Products and Other Factors, Our Operating Results Are Subject to Quarterly Fluctuations Our tea brand manufactures and markets hot tea products and, as a result, our quarterly results of operations reflect seasonal trends resulting from increased demand for our hot tea products in the cooler months of the year. In addition, some of our other products (e.g., baking and cereal products and soups) also show stronger sales in the cooler months while our snack food product lines and certain of our prepared food products are stronger in the warmer months. Quarterly fluctuations in our sales volume and operating results are due to a number of factors relating to our business, including the timing of trade promotions, advertising and consumer promotions and other factors, such as seasonality, inclement weather and unanticipated increases in labor, commodity, energy, insurance or other operating costs. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, you should not rely on our quarterly operating results as indications of our future performance. The Profitability of Our Operations is Dependent on Our Ability to Manage Our Inventory Our profit margins depend on our ability to manage our inventory efficiently. As part of our effort to manage our inventory more efficiently, we carried out SKU rationalization programs in fiscal 2009 and 2008, which resulted in the discontinuation of numerous lower-margin or low-turnover SKUs. However, a number of factors, such as changes in customers’ inventory levels, access to shelf space and changes in consumer preferences, may lengthen the number of days we carry certain inventories, hence impeding our effort to manage our inventory efficiently. Our Officers and Directors May Be Able to Control Our Actions Our officers and directors beneficially owned (assuming the exercise of all stock options held by them) approximately 11.6% of our common stock as of June 30, 2009. Accordingly, our officers and directors may be in a position to influence the election of our directors and otherwise influence stockholder action. Our Ability to Issue Preferred Stock May Deter Takeover Attempts Our board of directors is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of our common stock and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we may do so in the future under appropriate circumstances. - 14 - Table of Contents An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill or Other Intangible Assets Could Materially and Adversely Affect our Consolidated Operating Results and Net Worth We have made many acquisitions since our inception. As a result of these acquisitions, we had approximately $456 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet at the end of fiscal 2009. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and certain other intangible assets annually or at any time when events occur which could impact the value of our reporting units. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ estimated fair market value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a charge for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our consolidated earnings in the period of such charge. In addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth. As a result of our interim impairment analysis performed in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $49.6 million, net of $7.6 million attributed to the minority interest of Hain Pure Protein. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $3.0 million related to a customer relationship in the United Kingdom. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company finalized its goodwill impairment with no further adjustment required. For further details, see Note 10 (“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”) to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2009. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires considerable judgment. If our common stock price trades below book value per share, if there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or if future interim or annual goodwill impairment tests indicate an impairment of our goodwill, we may have to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges for goodwill which may materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. The Ongoing Government Inquiry Relating to our Historical Stock Option Practices is Time Consuming and Expensive and Could Result in Additional Litigation, Regulatory Proceedings and Government Enforcement Actions. As a result of an inquiry by the SEC into our historical stock option granting practices and the related accounting and disclosures, four of our independent directors, with the assistance of independent counsel, conducted an investigation into the Company’s historical stock option granting practices. The findings of the investigation resulted in revisions to the measurement dates for certain options granted in prior years, requiring us to restate our fiscal 2006 and prior financial statements as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007. This has exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. While we intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC, we do not know what further actions the SEC may take or what may be required of us in order to resolve this inquiry. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters has been and may continue to be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. We have incurred substantial expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services related to the investigation, restatement and related activities to date. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Have Civil Litigation Pending that Relates to our Stock Option Granting Practices, and We Cannot Predict the Ultimate Outcome of this Litigation, or Whether Additional Similar Lawsuits will be Filed. Two purported shareholder derivative actions were filed in September and October 2006 against the Company (solely as a nominal defendant) and certain current and former officers and directors in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Suffolk, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and unjust enrichment in connection with the Company’s past stock option practices. The complaints seek unspecified damages, disgorgement of options, attorneys fees and expenses, and other unspecified equitable relief from the defendants. These actions have been consolidated into one action. We could be required to pay significant legal fees and damages in connection with this litigation. We could also become subject to additional lawsuits in the future relating to our stock option practices. - 15 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 