Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. Our Markets Are Highly Competitive We operate in highly competitive geographic and product markets, and some of our markets are dominated by competitors with greater resources. We cannot be certain that we will successfully compete for sales to distributors or stores that purchase from larger, more established companies that have greater financial, managerial, sales and technical resources. In addition, we compete for limited retailer shelf space for our products. Larger competitors, such as mainstream food companies including but not limited to Dean Foods Company, General Mills, Inc., Nestle S.A., Kraft Foods Inc., Groupe Danone, Kellogg Company, PepsiCo, Inc., The J.M. Smucker Company, Campbell Soup Company and Sara Lee Corporation and mainstream personal care products companies including but not limited to Johnson & Johnson and Estee Lauder Inc., also may be able to benefit from economies of scale, pricing advantages or the introduction of new products that compete with our products. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels. One example of the competitiveness of the markets in which we participate is in the tea portion of the beverage market. Competitive factors in the tea industry include product quality and taste, brand awareness among consumers, variety of specialty tea flavors, interesting or unique product names, product packaging and package design, supermarket and grocery store shelf space, alternative distribution channels, reputation, price, advertising and promotion. Our principal competitors on a national basis in the U.S. specialty tea market are Thomas J. Lipton Company, a division of Unilever PLC, and R.C. Bigelow, Inc. Unilever has substantially greater financial resources than we do. Additional competitors include a number of regional specialty tea companies. There may be potential entrants which are not currently in the specialty tea market who may have substantially greater resources than we do. Private label competition in the specialty tea category is currently minimal, but growing. In the future, competitors may introduce other products that compete with our products and these competitive products may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also compete with other manufacturers in the procurement of natural and organic product ingredients, which may be less plentiful in the open market than conventional product ingredients. This competition may increase in the future along with increasing public demand for natural and organic products. This could cause our expenses to increase or could limit the amount of product that we can manufacture and sell. Consumer Preferences for Our Products Are Difficult to Predict and May Change A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products or our failure to maintain our current market position could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brands in our markets, which could harm our business. While we continue to diversify our product offerings, we cannot be certain that demand for our products will continue at current levels or increase in the future. Our business is primarily focused on sales of natural and organic products in markets geared to consumers of natural foods, specialty teas, non-dairy beverages, cereals, breakfast bars, canned soups and vegetables, snacks, cooking oils and personal care products which, if consumer demand for such categories were to decrease, could harm our business. Consumer trends could change based on a number of possible factors, including: 9 Table of Contents • nutritional values, such as a change in preference from fat free to reduced fat to no reduction in fat; and • a shift in preference from organic to non-organic and from natural products to non-natural products. In addition, we have other product categories, such as meat alternative products, medically-directed food products and other specialty food items which are subject to evolving consumer preferences. Our Acquisition Strategy Exposes Us to Risk We intend to continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of new brands, both in the United States and internationally. Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring brands with products that complement our existing product mix. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully: • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • negotiate identified acquisitions on terms acceptable to us; or • integrate acquisitions that we complete. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions in the future, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Our Future Success May Be Dependent on Our Ability to Integrate Brands That We Acquire Our future success may be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate new brands that we acquire, including our ability to realize potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings, some of which may involve operational changes. We cannot be certain: • as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired brand; • that a business combination will enhance our competitive position and business prospects; • that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of a business combination; or • that, with respect to our acquisitions outside the United States, we will not be affected by, among other things, exchange rate risk. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in: • integrating an acquired brand’s distribution channels with our own; • coordinating sales force activities of an acquired brand or in selling the products of an acquired brand to our customer base; or • integrating an acquired brand into our management information systems or integrating an acquired brand’s products into our product mix. Additionally, integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations will require management resources and may divert our management from our day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, our business could be harmed. We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Chief Executive Officer We are highly dependent upon the services of Irwin D. Simon, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe Mr. Simon’s reputation as our founder and his expertise and knowledge in the natural and organic products market are critical factors in our continuing growth. The loss of the services of Mr. Simon could harm our business. 10 Table of Contents We Rely on Independent Brokers and Distributors for a Substantial Portion of Our Sales We rely upon sales efforts made by or through non-affiliated food brokers to distributors and other customers, in addition to our own retail sales organization. The loss of, or business disruption at, one or more of these distributors or brokers may harm our business. If we are required to obtain additional or alternative distribution and food brokerage agreements or arrangements in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. One of our distributors, United Natural Foods, Inc., which redistributes products to natural foods supermarkets, independent natural retailers and other retailers, accounted for approximately 20%, 20% and 21% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Our inability to enter into satisfactory brokerage agreements may inhibit our ability to implement our business plan or to establish markets necessary to develop products successfully. Food brokers act as selling agents representing specific brands on a non-exclusive basis under oral or written agreements generally terminable at any time on 30 days’ notice, and receive a percentage of net sales as compensation. Distributors purchase directly for their own account for resale. In addition, the success of our business depends, in large part, upon the establishment and maintenance of a strong distribution network. Loss of One or More of Our Manufacturing Facilities or Independent Co-Packers Could Harm Our Business For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 47%, 46% and 47%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at our manufacturing facilities. An interruption in or the loss of operations at one or more of these facilities, or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as an alternate source of production could be secured. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 53%, 54% and 53%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured at independent co-packers. In some cases an individual co-packer may produce all of our requirements for a particular brand; however, no co-packer manufactured products representing as much as 10% of our revenue. The loss of one or more co-packers, or our failure to retain co-packers for newly acquired products or brands, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as an alternate source could be secured, which may be on less favorable terms. Our Tea Ingredients Are Subject to Import Risk Our tea brand purchases its ingredients from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers, importers and growers, with the majority of those purchases occurring outside of the United States. We maintain long-term relationships with most of our suppliers. Purchase arrangements with ingredient suppliers are generally made annually and in U.S. currency. Purchases are made through purchase orders or contracts, and price, delivery terms and product specifications vary. Our botanical purchasers visit major suppliers around the world annually to procure ingredients and to assure quality by observing production methods and providing product specifications. Many ingredients are presently grown in countries where labor-intensive cultivation is possible, and where we often must educate the growers about product standards. We perform laboratory analyses on incoming ingredient shipments for the purpose of assuring that they meet our quality standards and those of the FDA. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as foreign political situations, embargoes, changes in national and world economic conditions, currency fluctuations, forecasting adequate need of seasonal raw material ingredients and climate conditions. We take steps and will continue to take steps intended to lessen the risk of an interruption of botanical supplies, including identification of alternative sources and maintenance of appropriate inventory levels. We have, in the past, maintained sufficient supplies for our ongoing operations. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or to find new suppliers, observe production standards for our foreign-procured products or continue our supply of botanicals from foreign sources could harm our business. Our Future Results of Operations May be Adversely Affected by Escalating Fuel and Commodity Costs and the Availability of Organic Ingredients Many aspects of our business have been, and continue to be, directly affected by the continuously rising cost of fuel and commodities. Increased fuel costs have translated into increased costs for the products and services we receive from our third party providers including, but not limited to, increased distribution costs for our products and increased packaging costs. Commodities are subject to price volatility which can be caused by commodity market fluctuations, crop yields, changes in currency exchange rates, imbalances between supply and demand and government programs among other factors. Increased demand for organic ingredients may result in our inability to procure adequate supplies, which may result in our inability to satisfy customer orders. As the cost of doing business increases, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers and, therefore, any such cost increase may adversely affect our earnings. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our International Sales and Operations, Including Foreign Currency Risks Operating in international markets involves exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, which are volatile at times. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is complex because such changes are often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. Consequently, isolating the effect of changes in currency does not incorporate these other important economic factors. These changes, if material, could cause adjustments to our financing and operating strategies. During fiscal 2008, approximately 22.9% of our net sales were generated outside the United States, while such sales outside the U.S. were 24.9% of net sales in 2007 and 19.3% in 2006. Sales from outside our U.S. markets may represent an increasing portion of our total net sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: • periodic economic downturns and unstable political environments; • price and currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in the relative values of currencies; • unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • compliance with applicable foreign laws; and • difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable and managing distributors. Our Inability to Use Our Trademarks Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We believe that brand awareness is a significant component in a consumer’s decision to purchase one product over another in the highly competitive food, beverage and personal care industry. Although we endeavor to protect our trademarks and trade names, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, or that third parties will not challenge our right to use one or more of our trademarks or trade names. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to the marketing and sale of our products and that the inability to utilize certain of these names could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Products Must Comply with Government Regulation The USDA adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program which became effective in February 2001, and fully implemented in October 2002. Amendments to Canada’s Organic Products regulations as administered by the Canada Organic Office of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency will become effective in December 2008. Although the implementation period has not yet been defined, we will be required to 12 Table of Contents apply for recertification of our organic products under the new regulations and update any affected packaging. In addition, similar regulations and requirements exist in the other countries in which we market our products. We currently manufacture over 1,300 organic products worldwide which are covered by these various regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labeling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. In addition, in January 2001, the FDA proposed new policy guidelines regarding the labeling of genetically engineered foods. The FDA is currently considering the comments it received before issuing final guidance. These guidelines, if adopted, could require us to modify the labeling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. In the Untied States, the FDA’s Nutritional Labeling regulations require the declaration of “Trans Fatty Acids” in the nutritional label of conventional foods and dietary supplements. Additionally, an allergen labeling law requires that eight major allergens be clearly labeled. All of our labels are in compliance with these rules. Canadian food labeling regulations require a Nutritional Facts panel be on our packages. Our Yves Veggie Cuisine® products are subject to these regulations, as are all of our other products sold into Canada. Similar labeling regulations exist throughout the rest of the world. We continually monitor and modify packaging to be in compliance with the rules of the various countries where we sell our products. Our ability to meet local packaging regulations may impact our ability to sell products in these regions. Any change in labeling requirements for our products may lead to an increase in packaging costs or interruptions or delays in packaging deliveries. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product Recalls or Withdrawals Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business Manufacturers and distributors of products in our industry are sometimes subject to the recall of their products for a variety of reasons, including for product defects, such as ingredient contamination, packaging safety and inadequate labeling disclosure. If any of our products are recalled or withdrawn due to a product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the expense of the recall or withdrawal and the expense of any resulting legal proceeding. Additionally, if one of our significant brands were subject to recall or withdrawal, the image of that brand and our image could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Product Liability Suits, If Brought, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business If a product liability claim exceeding our insurance coverage were to be successfully asserted against us, it could harm our business. There can be no assurances that such coverage will be sufficient to insure against claims which may be brought against us, or that we will be able to maintain such insurance or obtain additional insurance covering existing or new products. As a marketer of food, beverage and personal care products, we are subject to the risk of claims for product liability. We maintain product liability insurance and generally require that our co-packers maintain product liability insurance naming us as an additional insured. We Rely on Independent Certification for a Number of Our Food Products We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “kosher,” to differentiate our products from others. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our market position as a natural and organic food company, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials, or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw 13 Table of Contents materials must be certified organic. Similarly, we can lose our “kosher” certification if a manufacturing plant and raw materials do not meet the requirements of the appropriate kosher supervision organization. Due to the Seasonality of Many of Our Products and Other Factors, Our Operating Results Are Subject to Quarterly Fluctuations Our tea brand manufactures and markets hot tea products and, as a result, our quarterly results of operations reflect seasonal trends resulting from increased demand for our hot tea products in the cooler months of the year. In addition, some of our other products (e.g., baking and cereal products and soups) also show stronger sales in the cooler months while our snack food product lines and certain of our prepared food products are stronger in the warmer months. Sales of our turkey products are strongest in the second quarter of our fiscal year, coinciding with seasonal holidays. Quarterly fluctuations in our sales volume and operating results are due to a number of factors relating to our business, including the timing of trade promotions, advertising and consumer promotions and other factors, such as seasonality, inclement weather and unanticipated increases in labor, commodity, energy, insurance or other operating costs. The impact on sales volume and operating results due to the timing and extent of these factors can significantly impact our business. For these reasons, you should not rely on our quarterly operating results as indications of our future performance. Our Growth is Dependent on Our Ability to Introduce New Products and Improve Existing Products Our growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and implement improvements to our existing products and to introduce new products to consumers. The innovation and product improvements are affected by the level of funding that can be made available, the technical capability of our Research and Development Department in developing and testing product prototypes, and the success of our management in rolling out the resulting improvements in a timely manner. If we are unsuccessful in implementing product improvements that satisfy the demands of consumers, our business could be harmed. The Profitability of Our Operations is Dependent on Our Ability to Manage Our Inventory Our profit margins depend on our ability to manage our inventory efficiently. As part of our effort to manage our inventory more efficiently, we carried out SKU rationalization programs in fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2005, which resulted in the discontinuation of numerous lower-margin or low-turnover SKUs. However, a number of factors, such as changes in customers’ inventory levels, access to shelf space and changes in consumer preferences, may lengthen the number of days we carry certain inventories, hence impeding our effort to manage our inventory efficiently. Our Officers and Directors May Be Able to Control Our Actions Our officers and directors beneficially owned (assuming the exercise of all stock options held by them) approximately 11% of our common stock as of June 30, 2008. Accordingly, our officers and directors may be in a position to influence the election of our directors and otherwise influence stockholder action. Our Ability to Issue Preferred Stock May Deter Takeover Attempts Our board of directors is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of our common stock and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we may do so in the future under appropriate circumstances. 14 Table of Contents An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill or Other Acquired Intangibles Could Negatively Affect our Consolidated Operating Results and Net Worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions which could result in an impairment include increased competition or loss of market share, a significant product liability or intellectual property claim or other factors that would result in a significant reduction in sales or profitability over the product life. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. The Ongoing Government Inquiry Relating to our Historical Stock Option Practices is Time Consuming and Expensive and Could Result in Additional Litigation, Regulatory Proceedings and Government Enforcement Actions. As a result of an informal inquiry by the SEC into our historical stock option granting practices and the related accounting and disclosures, four of our independent directors, with the assistance of independent counsel, conducted an investigation into the Company’s historical stock option granting practices. The findings of the investigation resulted in revisions to the measurement dates for certain options granted in prior years, requiring us to restate our fiscal 2006 and prior financial statements as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007. This has exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. While we intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC, we do not know what further actions the SEC may take or what may be required of us in order to resolve this inquiry. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters has been and may continue to be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. We have incurred substantial expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services related to the investigation, restatement and related activities to date. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Have Civil Litigation Pending that Relates to our Stock Option Granting Practices, and We Cannot Predict the Ultimate Outcome of this Litigation, or Whether Additional Similar Lawsuits will be Filed. Two purported shareholder derivative actions were filed in September and October 2006 against the Company (solely as a nominal defendant) and certain current and former officers and directors in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Suffolk, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and unjust enrichment in connection with the Company’s past stock option practices. The complaints seek unspecified damages, disgorgement of options, attorneys fees and expenses, and other unspecified equitable relief from the defendants. These actions have been consolidated into one action, which is in its preliminary stages. We could be required to pay significant legal fees and damages in connection with this litigation. We could also become subject to additional lawsuits in the future relating to our stock option practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 