Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. Stockholders and potential stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors related to our company as well as general investor risks, in addition to the other information contained in this report and the information incorporated by reference in this report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline and stockholders and potential stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Please also see Item 7 of Part II — "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Forward-Looking Statements." The recent financial crisis and current economic uncertainty may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic recession and continuing economic uncertainty, have affected, and will likely continue to affect consumer spending generally and the buying habits and preferences of our customers in particular. A significant portion of the products we sell, especially those sold under the UGG Australia brand, are considered to be luxury retail products. The purchase of these products by customers is largely discretionary, and is therefore highly dependent upon the level of consumer spending, particularly among affluent customers. Sales of these products may be adversely affected by a continuation or worsening of recent economic conditions, increases in consumer debt levels, uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, or a decline in consumer confidence. During an actual or perceived economic downturn, fewer customers may shop for our products and those who do shop may limit the amounts of their purchases. As a result, we could be required to reduce the price we can charge for our products or increase our marketing and promotional expenses in response to lower than anticipated levels of demand for our products. In either case, these changes, or other similar changes in our marketing strategy, would reduce our revenues and profit margins and could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We sell the majority of our products through high-end specialty and department store retailers. These retailer customers may be impacted by continuing economic uncertainty, reduced customer demand for luxury products, and a significant decrease in available credit. If reduced consumer spending, lower demand for luxury products, or credit pressures result in financial difficulties or insolvency for these customers, it would adversely impact our estimated allowances and reserves as well as our overall financial results. Also, economic factors such as increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase our cost of sales and our operating expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, and trading price of common stock could be materially and adversely affected if the economy fails to stabilize, or if current economic conditions do not improve or worsen. Our financial success is influenced by the success of our customers. Much of our financial success is directly related to the success of our retailers and distributors to market and sell our brands through to the consumer. If a retailer fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult to locate an acceptable substitute retailer. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to either locate an acceptable substitute distributor or convert to a wholesale direct model. If a change becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, loss of customers, increased credit risk, and increased inventory risk, as well as substantial disruption to operations and a potential loss of sales. We currently do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to our customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by our wholesale customers. We use the timing of delivery dates in our wholesale customer orders to forecast our 10 Table of Contents sales and earnings for future periods. If any of our major customers, including independent distributors, experience a significant downturn in business or fail to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers could postpone, reduce, or discontinue purchases from us. As a result, we could experience a decline in sales or gross margins, write downs of excess inventory, increased discounts or extended credit terms to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and our common stock price. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 28.9% of worldwide net sales in 2010 and 30.0% of worldwide net sales in 2009. Any loss of a key customer, the financial collapse or bankruptcy of a key customer, or a significant reduction in purchases from a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our new and existing retail stores may not realize returns on our investments. Our retail segment has grown substantially in both net sales and total assets during the past year, and we intend to rapidly expand this segment in the future. We have entered into significant long-term leases for certain of our retail locations. Global store openings involve substantial investments, including constructing leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, equipment, information systems, inventory and personnel. In addition, since certain of our retail store costs are fixed, if we have insufficient sales, we may be unable to reduce expenses in order to avoid losses or negative cash flows. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the retail segment, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in write-downs of inventory and leasehold improvements, severance costs, significant lease termination costs, impairment losses on long-lived assets, or loss of our working capital, which could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have difficulty filling our customers' orders. Because the footwear industry has relatively long lead times for design and production, we must plan our production tooling and projected volumes many months before consumer tastes become apparent. The footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences, as well as the effects of weather, general market conditions, competition, and other factors affecting demand. A large number of models, colors and sizes in our product lines can increase these risks. As a result, we may fail to accurately forecast styles, colors and features that will be in demand. If we overestimate demand for any products or styles, we may be forced to provide additional marketing assistance, incur higher markdowns, or sell excess inventories at reduced prices resulting in lower, or negative, gross margins. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate fashion trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our brands, on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to the rapidly changing fashion tastes of footwear and accessory consumers and to provide appealing merchandise in a timely and cost effective manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We are also dependent on customer receptivity to our products and marketing strategy. There can be no assurance that consumers will continue to prefer our brands or that we will (1) respond quickly enough to changes in consumer preferences, (2) market our products successfully, or (3) successfully introduce acceptable new models and styles of footwear or accessories to our target consumer. Achieving market acceptance for new products also will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts and expend significant funds to attract consumers. A failure to introduce new products that gain market acceptance or maintain market share with our current products would erode our competitive position, which would reduce our profits and could adversely affect the image of our brands, resulting in long-term harm to our business. 11 Table of Contents Our UGG brand has experienced strong growth over the past several years, with double-digit increases in net wholesale sales of UGG products. We cannot anticipate how long we will continue sustaining this growth rate in the future. UGG products include fashion items that could go out of style at any time. UGG products represent a majority of our business, and if UGG product sales were to decline or fail to increase in the future, our overall financial performance and common stock price would be adversely affected. Many of our products are seasonal, and our sales are sensitive to weather conditions. Sales of our products are highly seasonal and are sensitive to weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm weather during the fall and winter months may reduce demand for our UGG products. Even though we are creating more year-round styles for our brands, the effect of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales can be significant enough to affect our quarterly results, with a resulting effect on our common stock price. We may not succeed in implementing our growth strategies. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to enhance the positioning of our brands, extend our brands into complementary product categories and markets, partner with or acquire compatible companies, expand geographically, increase our retail presence, and improve our operational performance. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our operations considerably, including significantly increasing the number of employees worldwide. We anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to realize our growth potential and new market opportunities. We are growing globally through our retail, eCommerce, wholesale, consignment, and distributor channels. In addition, as part of our international growth strategy, we intend to continue reacquiring distribution rights from select distributors and transition from third-party distribution to direct distribution through wholly-owned subsidiaries. Implementing our growth strategies, or failure to effectively execute them, could affect near term revenues from the postponement of sales recognition to future periods, our rate of growth or profitability, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, our growth initiatives could: •increase our working capital needs beyond our capacity; •increase costs if we fail to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost savings; •result in impairment charges related to newly acquired businesses; •create remote-site management issues, which would adversely affect our internal control environment; •have significant domestic or international legal or compliance implications; •make it difficult to attract, retain, and manage adequate human resources in remote locations; •cause additional inventory manufacturing, distribution, and management costs; •cause us to experience difficulty in filling customer orders; •result in distribution termination transaction costs; or •create other production, distribution, and operating difficulties. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights or deter counterfeiting could diminish the value of our brands and reduce sales. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are of value and are integral to our success and our competitive position. Some countries' laws do not protect intellectual property rights 12 Table of Contents to the same extent as do US laws. From time to time, we discover counterfeit products in the marketplace that infringe upon our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party's products on the basis of patent, trademark and trade dress rights, particularly in some foreign countries, this could adversely affect our continued sales, financial condition and results of operation. If our brands are associated with infringers' or competitors' inferior products, this could also adversely affect the integrity of our brands. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are typically met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Similarly, from time to time we may need to defend against claims that the word "ugg" is a generic term and that "UGG Australia" should not be registered as a trademark. Such a claim was successful in Australia, but such claims have been rejected by courts in the United States and in the Netherlands. Any decision or settlement in any of these matters that prevents trademark protection of the "UGG Australia" brand in our major markets, or that allows a third party to continue to use our brand trademarks in connection with the sale of products similar to our products, or to continue to manufacture or distribute counterfeit products could result in intensified commercial competition and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unplanned increases in legal fees and other costs associated with the defense of our intellectual property or rebranding could result in higher operating expenses and lower earnings. Our goodwill and other intangible assets may incur impairment losses. We conducted our annual impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets for 2010, 2009, and 2008. In addition, we conducted interim impairment evaluations when impairment indicators arose. In 2010, we did not recognize any impairment charges on our goodwill and other intangible assets. We recognized the following impairment charges in 2009 and 2008 in our income from operations: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Teva trademarks $ — $ 20,400 Teva goodwill — 11,929 Other brands trademarks 1,000 — Other brands goodwill — 3,496 Total impairment loss on intangible assets $ 1,000 $ 35,825 If any brand's product sales or operating margins decline to a point that the fair value falls below its carrying value, we may be required to further write down the related intangible assets. These or other related declines could cause us to incur additional impairment losses, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements and results of operations. The value of our trademarks is highly dependent on forecasted revenues and earnings before interest and taxes for our brands, as well as derived discount and royalty rates. In addition, the valuation of intangible assets is subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. We may also decide to discontinue a brand which would result in the write down of all related intangible assets. The balances of goodwill and nonamortizable intangibles by brand are as follows: As of December 31, 2010 UGG Teva Other Brands Total Trademarks $ 152 $ 15,300 $ — $ 15,452 Goodwill 6,101 — 406 6,507 Total nonamortizable intangibles $ 6,253 $ 15,300 $ 406 $ 21,959 13 Table of Contents If raw materials do not meet our specifications, or experience price increases or shortages, we could realize interruptions in manufacturing, increased costs, higher product return rates, a loss of sales, or a reduction in our gross margins. We depend on a limited number of key sources for certain raw materials like sheepskin, the principal raw material of our UGG Classic products. The top grade sheepskin used in UGG products is in high demand and limited supply. The supply of sheepskin can be adversely impacted by weather conditions, disease, and harvesting decisions that are completely outside our control. The potential inability to obtain top grade raw materials could impair our ability to meet our production requirements and could lead to inventory shortages, which can result in lost sales, delays in shipments to customers, strain on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. There have also been significant increases in the prices of top grade sheepskin as the demand from competitors for this material has increased. Any price increases in key raw materials will likely raise our costs and decrease our profitability unless we are able to commensurately increase our selling prices. Our independent manufacturers use various raw materials in the production of our footwear and accessories that must meet our design specifications and, in some cases, additional technical requirements for performance footwear. If these raw materials and the end product do not conform to our specifications, we could experience a higher rate of customer returns and deterioration in the image of our brands, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Because we depend on independent manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a continuous supply of finished goods that meet our quality standards. Most of our production is performed by a limited number of independent manufacturers in China. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain manufacturing capacity, and store completed goods pending shipment in a safe and sound location. We do not possess direct control over either the independent manufacturers or their materials suppliers, so we may be unable to obtain timely and continuous delivery of acceptable products. In addition, while we do have long standing relationships with most of our factories, we currently do not have long-term contracts with these independent manufacturers, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of acceptable quality and competitively priced products from our independent manufacturers. If there is an interruption, we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative manufacturers to provide products or services of a comparable quality at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. If a change in our independent manufacturers becomes necessary, we would likely experience increased costs as well as substantial disruption of our business, which could result in a loss of sales and earnings. Interruptions in the supply chain can also result from natural disasters and other adverse events that would impair our manufacturers' operations. We keep proprietary materials involved in the production process, such as shoe molds, knives, and raw materials, under the custody of our independent manufacturers. If these independent manufacturers were to experience loss or damage to our proprietary materials involved in the production process, we cannot be assured that such independent manufacturers would have adequate insurance to cover such loss or damage and, in any event, the replacement of such materials would likely result in significant delays in the production of our products and could result in a loss of sales and earnings. 14 Table of Contents Our independent manufacturers are located outside the US, where we are subject to the risks of international commerce. Substantially all of our independent manufacturers are in China and Vietnam, with the vast majority of production performed by a limited number of manufacturers in China. Foreign manufacturing is subject to numerous risks, including the following: •tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules on raw materials and finished products, including the potential threat of anti-dumping duties and quotas such as those which have been imposed by the European Union on the import of certain types of footwear from China and Vietnam; •increasing transportation costs; •poor infrastructure and shortages of equipment, which can disrupt transportation and utilities; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •changing economic conditions; •violations or changes in governmental policies and regulations including labor, safety, and environmental regulations in China, Vietnam, the US and elsewhere; •refusal to adopt or comply with our Factory Charter, Ethical Supply Chain guidelines, and Restricted Substances Policy; •customary business traditions in China and Vietnam such as local holidays, which are traditionally accompanied by high levels of turnover in the factories; •labor unrest, which can lead to work stoppages and interruptions in transportation or supply; •delays during shipping, at the port of entry, or at the port of departure; •political instability, which can interrupt commerce; •use of unauthorized or prohibited materials or reclassification of materials; •expropriation and nationalization; and •adverse changes in consumer perception of goods, trade or political relations with China and Vietnam. These factors could severely interfere with the manufacture or shipment of our products, which could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, thus materially affecting our sales and results of operations. While we periodically visit and audit the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control their business practices. If we discovered non-compliant manufacturers or suppliers that cannot or will not become compliant, we would cease dealing with them, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply chain. In addition, the manufacturers' or designated suppliers' actions could damage our reputation and the value of our brands, resulting in negative publicity and discouraging customers and consumers from buying our products. We conduct business outside the US, which exposes us to foreign currency, global liquidity, and other risks. As we increase our international operations, our sales and expenditures in foreign currencies will become more material and subject to currency fluctuations and global credit markets. A significant portion of our international operating expenses are paid in local currencies. Also, our foreign distributors sell in local currencies, which impacts the price to foreign customers. Effective January 1, 2011, our business changed such that certain of our subsidiaries' functional currency designations changed from US dollars to the local currencies. We currently utilize forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate, for the amounts we expect to purchase and sell in foreign currencies. As we expand international operations and increase purchases and sales in 15 Table of Contents foreign currencies, we will evaluate and may utilize additional derivative instruments, as needed, to hedge our foreign currency exposures. Our hedging strategies depend on our forecasts of sales, expenses and cash flows, which are inherently subject to inaccuracies. Therefore, our hedging strategies may be ineffective. Future changes in foreign currency exchange rates and global credit markets may cause changes in the US dollar value of our purchases or sales and materially affect our sales, profit margins or results of operations, when converted to US dollars. In addition, the failure of financial institutions that underwrite our derivative contracts may negate our efforts to hedge our foreign currency exposures and result in material foreign currency or contract losses. Foreign currency hedging activities, transactions, or translations could materially impact our financial statements. While our purchases from overseas factories are currently denominated in US dollars, certain operating and manufacturing costs of the factories are denominated in other currencies. As a result, fluctuations in these currencies versus the US dollar could impact our purchase prices from the factories in the event that they adjust their selling prices accordingly. The currency exchange rate between US dollars and the Chinese Renminbi (RMB) could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent we need to convert US dollars into RMB for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the RMB appreciate against the US dollar. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into US dollars for operational needs, the dollar equivalent of earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced should the US dollar appreciate against the RMB. In 2005, the People's Republic of China revalued its currency and abandoned its peg to the US dollar. Under this policy, which was halted in 2008 due to the worldwide financial crisis, the RMB was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. In June 2010, the Chinese government announced its intention to again allow the RMB to fluctuate within the 2005 parameters. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the US dollar. We currently source substantially all production from China. While our purchases from the Chinese factories are currently denominated in US dollars, certain operating and manufacturing costs of the factories are denominated in the RMB. As a result, any further revaluations in the RMB versus the US dollar could impact our purchase prices from the factories in the event that they adjust their selling prices accordingly. Any increase in our footwear purchase costs will reduce our gross margin unless we are able to raise our selling prices to our customers in order to compensate for the increased costs. Key business processes and supporting information systems could be interrupted and adversely affect our business. Our future success and growth depend on the continued operation of our key business processes, including information systems, global communications, the internet, and key personnel. Hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage. Key processes could also be interrupted by a failure due to weather, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer systems, sabotage, terrorism, or similar event such that: •critical business systems become inoperable or require significant costs to restore; •key personnel are unable to perform their duties, communicate, or access information systems; •significant quantities of merchandise are damaged or destroyed; •we are required to make unanticipated investment in state-of-the-art technologies and security measures; 16 Table of Contents •key wholesale customers cannot place or receive orders; •eCommerce customer orders may not be received or fulfilled; •we are exposed to unanticipated liabilities; or •carriers cannot ship or unload shipments. These interruptions to key business processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and result in lost sales and reduced earnings. We rely on our information management, internet cloud providers and other enterprise resource planning systems to operate our business, prepare forecasts and track our operating results. Our information management and enterprise planning systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded information technology systems, including loss of data, unreliable data, and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with the new systems. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to competitively modify our information management systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business and report financial results could be adversely affected. The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could also harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. We could be adversely affected by the loss of our warehouses. The warehousing of our inventory is located at a limited number of self-managed domestic and primarily third party managed international facilities, the loss of any of which could adversely impact our sales, business performance and operating results. In addition, we could face a significant disruption in our domestic distribution center operations if our automated pick module does not perform as anticipated or ceases to function for an extended period. The costs of production and transportation of our products can increase as petroleum and other energy prices rise, or demand for ocean containers or other means of transportation exceed existing supply. The manufacture and transportation of our products requires the use of petroleum-based materials and energy costs. Any future increases in the costs of, or interruption of access to, these materials and energy sources could increase the cost of our goods which would reduce our gross margins unless we can successfully raise our selling prices to compensate for the increased costs. In addition, we rely on ocean carriers and other freight companies to transport our goods. In the event demand for transportation exceeds existing capacity, additional costs will be incurred which will increase our cost of goods sold and could decrease our profitability. Our sales in international markets are subject to a variety of laws and political and economic risks that may adversely impact our sales and results of operations in certain regions, which could increase our costs and adversely impact our operating results. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations and joint ventures with international partners that could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. These include: •changes in currency exchange rates, which impact the price to international consumers; •ability to move currency out of international markets; •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; •legal costs and penalties related to defending allegations of non-compliance; 17 Table of Contents •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •inability to fulfill import tariff quota requirements; •changes in tax laws; •complications due to lack of familiarity with local customs; •difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures; •political instability; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and •general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. International trade and import regulations may impose unexpected duty costs or other non-tariff barriers to markets while the increasing number of free trade agreements has the potential to stimulate increased competition; security procedures may cause significant delays. Products manufactured overseas and imported into the US and other countries are subject to import duties. While we have implemented internal measures to comply with applicable customs regulations and to properly calculate the import duties applicable to imported products, customs authorities may disagree with our claimed tariff treatment for certain products, resulting in unexpected costs that may not have been factored into the sales price of the products and our forecasted gross margins. We cannot predict whether future domestic laws, regulations or trade remedy actions or international agreements may impose additional duties or other restrictions on the importation of products from one or more of our sourcing venues. Such changes could increase the cost of our products, require us to withdraw from certain restricted markets or change our business methods, and could generally make it difficult to obtain products of our customary quality at a competitive price. Meanwhile, the continued negotiation of bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements by the US and our other market countries with countries other than our principal sourcing venues may stimulate competition from manufacturers in these other sourcing venues, which now export, or may seek to export, footwear and accessories to our target markets at preferred rates of duty, which may have an effect on our sales and operations. In 2006, the European Commission imposed definitive duties on leather upper footwear originating from China and certain other countries imported into European Member states. These duties were effective for a two-year period with a final 16.5% rate for China-sourced footwear and 10% on Vietnam-sourced footwear. In December 2009, the European Commission decided to extend the duties for a 15 month period, and accordingly, the duties are extended through March 31, 2011. Any increase in duties or the requirement for quotas will increase the cost of our products and may limit the amount of China and Vietnam sourced products that we are able to sell to the European market. The extension of anti-dumping duties or quotas on products manufactured in China and Vietnam may impact our sales and gross margins in the European market. Additionally, the increased threat of terrorist activity and law enforcement responses to this threat have required greater levels of inspection of imported goods and have caused delays in bringing imported goods to market. Any tightening of security procedures, for example, in the aftermath of a terrorist incident, could worsen these delays and increase our costs. The investment of our substantial cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2010 we had cash and cash equivalents of $445,226. A portion of these are held as cash in operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions. These balances routinely exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits. While we regularly monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these cash balances could lose 18 Table of Contents value or become inaccessible if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. The remainder of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are invested in funds managed by third party investment management institutions. These investments include US treasuries and government agencies, money market funds, and municipal bonds, among other investments. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. While we do not hold any investments whose value is directly correlated to mortgage debt, investment risk has been and may further be exacerbated by US mortgage defaults and credit and liquidity issues, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no material loss or lack of access to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. However, we can provide no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, or their earning potential, will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The tax laws applicable to our business are very complicated and we may be subject to additional income tax liabilities as a result of audits by various taxing authorities or changes in tax laws applicable to our business. We conduct our operations through subsidiaries in several countries including the US, the UK, Japan, China, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and Bermuda. As a result, we are subject to tax laws and regulations in each of those jurisdictions, and to tax treaties between the US and other nations. These tax laws are highly complex, and significant judgment and specialized expertise is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision for income taxes. We are subject to audits in each of the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, and any of these jurisdictions may assess additional income taxes against us as a result of their audits. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, and we undertake to prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and may require a restatement of prior financial reports at a material cost. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, or interest assessments. We are also subject to constant changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties in and between the nations in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the US, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. For example, on February 1, 2010, the US Department of the Treasury released a general explanation of the Obama administration's tax proposals for its fiscal year 2011 budget, which describes a number of proposed amendments to the international provisions of the US Internal Revenue Code that may be applicable to our business. It is possible that these proposals could result in changes to the existing US tax laws that affect us. We are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could increase our income tax liability and adversely affect our net income and long term effective tax rates. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive, and many new competitors have entered into the marketplace, as well as increased competition from established companies. A number of our competitors 19 Table of Contents have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do, as well as greater brand awareness in the footwear and accessory markets. Our competitors include athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies and retailers with their own private labels. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing has made it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear and accessory industries. Additionally, efforts by our competitors to dispose of their excess inventories may significantly reduce prices that we can expect to receive for the sale of our competing products and may cause our customers to shift their purchases away from our products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and earnings will decline, as will the value of our business, financial condition and common stock price. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. While our average daily trading volume for the 52-week period ended February 15, 2011 was approximately 1,420,000 shares, we have experienced more limited volume in the past and may do so in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing prices of our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have ranged from $33.71 to $87.02 for the 52-week period ended February 15, 2011. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: •changes in expectations of our future performance, whether realized or perceived; •changes in estimates by securities analysts or failure to meet such estimates; •published research and opinions by securities analysts and other market forecasters; •changes in our credit ratings; •the financial results and liquidity of our customers; •shift of revenue recognition as a result of changes in our distribution model, delivery of merchandise, or entering into agreements with related parties; •claims brought against us by a regulatory agency or our stockholders; •quarterly fluctuations in our sales, expenses, and financial results; •general equity market conditions and investor sentiment; •economic conditions and consumer confidence; •broad market fluctuations in volume and price; •increasing short sales of our stock; •announcements to repurchase our stock; •the declaration of stock or cash dividends; and •a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other periodic reports. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Accordingly, the price of our common stock is volatile and any investment in our stock is subject to risk of loss. These broad market and industry factors and other general macroeconomic conditions unrelated to our financial performance may also affect our common stock price. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 