Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. Investing in our common stock involves substantial risk. Before investing in our stock, stockholders and potential stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors related to our company as well as general investor risks, in addition to the other information contained in this report and the information incorporated by reference in this report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline and stockholders 7Table of Contentsmay lose all or part of their investment. Please also see the section entitled "Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements" on page 2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many of our products are seasonal, and our sales are sensitive to weather conditions.Sales of our products are highly seasonal and are sensitive to weather conditions, which are beyond our control. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm weather during the fall and winter months may reduce demand for our UGG products. During 2011 and 2012, we experienced mild winters which negatively impacted our sales for UGG products. Furthermore, variations in weather conditions across the globe may impact sales of our products in ways that we cannot predict. If management is not able to timely adjust expenses in reaction to adverse events such as unfavorable weather, weak consumer spending patterns or unanticipated levels of order cancellations because of seasonal circumstances, our profitability may be materially affected. Even though we are creating more year-round styles for our brands, the effect of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales can be significant enough to affect our quarterly and annual results, with a resulting effect on our common stock price. If raw materials do not meet our specifications, consumer expectations or experience price increases or shortages, we could realize interruptions in manufacturing, increased costs, higher product return rates, a loss of sales, or a reduction in our gross margins.We depend on a limited number of key sources for certain raw materials. For sheepskin, the raw material used in many of our UGG products, we rely on two tanneries. Both the top grade twinface and other grades of sheepskin used in UGG products are in high demand and limited supply. Furthermore, our unique sheepskin needs require certain types of sheepskin that may only be found in certain geographic locations and tanneries with sufficient expertise and capacity to deliver sheepskin which meets our specifications. The supply of sheepskin can be adversely impacted by weather conditions, disease, and harvesting decisions that are completely outside our control. For example, if the price of wool increases, sheep herders may choose not to harvest their sheep and instead choose to shear their sheep for wool, thus decreasing the supply of sheepskin. Sheepskin is also a by-product of the food industry and is therefore dependent upon the demand by the food industry, which has generally been decreasing thus leading to an overall reduction in the number of sheep available. The potential inability to obtain sheepskin and other raw materials could impair our ability to meet our production requirements and could lead to inventory shortages, which can result in lost sales, delays in shipments to customers, strain on our relationships with customers, and diminished brand loyalty. There have also been significant fluctuations in the prices of sheepskin as the demand from competitors for this material and the supply of sheep have changed. We experienced an increase in sheepskin costs in 2012 and a decrease in 2013, with the majority of the decrease being realized in the fourth quarter of 2013. We attempt to cover the full amount of our sheepskin purchases under fixed price contracts. Any price increases in key raw materials will likely raise our costs and decrease our profitability unless we are able to commensurately increase our selling prices and implement other cost savings measures.In addition, our sheepskin suppliers warehouse their inventory at a limited number of facilities in China, the loss of any of which due to natural disasters and other adverse events would likely result in shortages of sheepskin leading to delays in the production of our products and could result in a loss of sales and earnings.Our independent manufacturers use various raw materials in the production of our footwear and accessories that must meet our design specifications and, in some cases, additional technical requirements for performance footwear. Beginning in 2013, in some of our UGG products we used a new raw material, UGGpure, which is wool woven into a durable backing. If these raw materials and the end product do not conform to our specification or fail to meet consumer expectations, we could experience a higher rate of customer returns and deterioration in the image of our brands, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our new and existing retail stores may not realize returns on our investments.Our retail segment has grown substantially in both net sales and total assets during the past year, and we intend to rapidly expand this segment in the future. We have entered into significant long-term leases for many of our retail locations. Global store openings involve substantial investments, including constructing leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, equipment, information systems, inventory, and personnel. In addition, since a certain amount of our retail store costs are fixed, if we have insufficient sales, we may be unable to reduce expenses in order to avoid losses or negative cash flows. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the retail segment, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in significant write-downs of inventory, severance costs, lease termination costs, impairment losses on long-lived assets, or loss of our working capital, which could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.In addition, from time to time we license the right to operate retail stores for our brands to third parties, including our independent distributors. We provide training to support these stores, and set and monitor operational standards. However, the quality of these store operations may decline due to the failure of these third parties to operate the stores in a manner consistent with our standards, which could harm their sales and as a result harm our results of operations or cause our brand image to suffer.8Table of Contents If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have difficulty filling our customers' orders.Because the footwear industry has relatively long lead times for design and production, we must plan our production tooling and projected volumes many months before consumer tastes become apparent. The footwear and fashion industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences, making it difficult to accurately forecast demand for our products and our future results of operations. Many factors may significantly affect demand for our products, which include: consumer acceptance of our products, changes in consumer demand for products of our competitors, effects of weather conditions, our reliance on manual processes and judgment for certain supply and demand planning functions that are subject to human error, unanticipated changes in general market conditions, and weak economic conditions or consumer confidence that reduces demand for discretionary items, such as our products.A large number of models, colors, and sizes in our product lines can increase these risks. As a result, we may fail to accurately forecast styles, colors, and features that will be in demand. If we overestimate demand for any products or styles, we may be forced to incur higher markdowns or sell excess inventories at reduced prices resulting in lower, or negative, gross margins. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our independent factories are unable to supply products when we need them, we may experience inventory shortages that may prevent us from fulfilling customer orders or delaying shipments to customers. This could negatively affect our relationship with customers and diminish our brand loyalty, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights or deter counterfeiting could diminish the value of our brands and reduce sales.We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are of value and are integral to our success and our competitive position. Some countries' laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do US laws. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are typically met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Unplanned increases in legal fees and other costs associated with the defense of our intellectual property or rebranding could result in higher operating expenses and lower earnings.Similarly, from time to time, we may need to defend against claims that the word "ugg" is a generic term. Such a claim was successful in Australia, but such claims have been rejected by courts in the United States, China, Turkey and in the Netherlands. We have also faced claims that “UGG Australia” is geographically deceptive. Any decision or settlement in any of these matters that prevents trademark protection of the "UGG" brand in our major markets, or that allows a third party to continue to use our brand trademarks in connection with the sale of products similar to our products, or to continue to manufacture or distribute counterfeit products could result in intensified commercial competition and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The success of the UGG brand has lead to trademark counterfeiting, product imitation and other infringements of our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party's products on the basis of trademark design patent and trade dress rights, this could adversely affect our continued sales, financial condition, and results of operation. If our brands are associated with infringers' or competitors' inferior products, this could also adversely affect the integrity of our brands. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate fashion trends.Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our brands, on our ability to anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing fashion tastes of footwear, apparel, and accessory consumers and to provide appealing merchandise in a timely and cost effective manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We are also dependent on consumer receptivity to our products and marketing strategy. There can be no assurance that consumers will continue to prefer our brands or that we will (1) respond quickly enough to changes in consumer preferences, (2) market our products successfully, or (3) successfully introduce acceptable new models and styles of footwear or accessories to our target consumer. We believe that the ongoing economic uncertainty in many countries where we sell our products and the corresponding impact on consumer confidence and discretionary income may increase this uncertainty. Achieving market acceptance for new products also likely will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts and expend significant funds to attract consumers. A failure to introduce new products that gain market acceptance or maintain market share with our current products would erode our competitive position, which would reduce our profits and could adversely affect the image of our brands, resulting in long-term harm to our business.UGG products include fashion items that could go out of style at any time and competition for the sale of products by the UGG brand is intense and has increased over time. UGG products represent a majority of our business, and if UGG product sales were to decline or fail to increase in the future, our overall financial performance and common stock price would be adversely affected.9Table of Contents We may not succeed in implementing our growth strategies.As part of our growth strategy, we seek to enhance the positioning of our brands, extend our brands into complementary product categories and markets, partner with or acquire compatible companies or brands, expand geographically, increase our retail presence, and improve our operational performance. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our operations considerably, including significantly increasing the number of our employees worldwide. We anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to realize our growth potential and new market opportunities.We are growing globally through our retail, E-Commerce, wholesale, and distributor channels. In addition, as part of our international growth strategy, we may continue to transition from third-party distribution to direct distribution through wholly-owned subsidiaries. Implementing our growth strategies, or failure to effectively execute them, could affect near term revenues from the postponement of sales recognition to future periods, our rate of growth or profitability, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, our growth initiatives could:•increase our working capital needs beyond our capacity;•increase costs if we fail to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost savings;•result in impairment charges related to acquired businesses;•create remote-site management issues, which would adversely affect our internal control environment;•have significant domestic or international legal or compliance implications;•make it difficult to attract, retain, and manage adequate human resources in remote locations;•cause additional inventory manufacturing, distribution, and management costs;•cause us to experience difficulty in filling customer orders;•result in distribution termination transaction costs; or•create other production, distribution, and operating difficulties. Our goodwill and other intangible assets may incur impairment losses.We conducted our annual impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets for 2013, 2012, and 2011. In addition, we conducted interim impairment evaluations when impairment indicators arose. In 2013, 2012, and 2011, we did not recognize any material impairment charges on our goodwill and other intangible assets.If any brand's product sales or operating margins decline to a point that the fair value falls below its carrying value, we may be required to write down the related intangible assets. These or other related declines could cause us to incur additional impairment losses, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements and results of operations. The value of our trademarks is highly dependent on forecasted revenues and earnings before interest and taxes for our brands, as well as derived discount and royalty rates. In addition, the valuation of intangible assets is subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. We may also decide to discontinue a brand which would result in the write down of all related intangible assets. The balances of goodwill and nonamortizable intangibles by brand are as follows: As of December 31, 2013 UGG Teva Sanuk Other TotalTrademarks$154 $15,301 $— $— $15,455Goodwill6,101 — 113,944 8,680 128,725Total nonamortizable intangibles$6,255 $15,301 $113,944 $8,680 $144,180 Because we depend on independent manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a continuous supply of finished goods that meet our quality standards.Most of our production is performed by a limited number of independent manufacturers. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain manufacturing capacity, and store completed goods in a safe and sound location pending shipment. We do not possess direct control over either the independent manufacturers or their materials 10Table of Contentssuppliers, so we may be unable to obtain timely and continuous delivery of acceptable products. In addition, while we do have long standing relationships with most of our factories, we currently do not have long-term contracts with these independent manufacturers, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of acceptable quality and competitively priced products from our independent manufacturers. If there is an interruption, we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative manufacturers to provide products or services of a comparable quality at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. If a change in our independent manufacturers becomes necessary, we would likely experience increased costs as well as substantial disruption of our business, which could result in a loss of sales and earnings.Interruptions in the supply chain can also result from natural disasters and other adverse events that would impair our manufacturers' operations. We keep proprietary materials involved in the production process, such as shoe molds, knives, and raw materials, under the custody of our independent manufacturers. If these independent manufacturers were to experience loss or damage to our proprietary materials involved in the production process, we cannot be assured that such independent manufacturers would have adequate insurance to cover such loss or damage and, in any event, the replacement of such materials would likely result in significant delays in the production of our products and could result in a loss of sales and earnings. Most of our independent manufacturers are located outside the US, where we are subject to the risks of international commerce.Most of our independent manufacturers are in Asia and Latin America, with the majority of production performed by a limited number of manufacturers in China. Foreign manufacturing is subject to numerous risks, including the following:•tariffs, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules on raw materials and finished products, including the potential threat of anti-dumping duties and quotas;•increasing transportation costs and a limited supply of international shipping capacity;•increasing labor costs;•poor infrastructure and shortages of equipment, which can disrupt transportation and utilities;•restrictions on the transfer of funds;•changing economic conditions;•violations or changes in governmental policies and regulations including labor, safety, and environmental regulations in China, Vietnam, the US, and elsewhere;•refusal to adopt or comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and Restricted Substances Policy;•customary business traditions in China and Vietnam such as local holidays, which are traditionally accompanied by high levels of turnover in the factories;•labor unrest, which can lead to work stoppages and interruptions in transportation or supply;•delays during shipping, at the port of entry or at the port of departure;•political instability, which can interrupt commerce;•use of unauthorized or prohibited materials or reclassification of materials;•expropriation and nationalization; and•adverse changes in consumer perception of goods, trade, or political relations with China and Vietnam.These factors, or others of which we are currently unaware or which we do not currently view as material, could severely interfere with the manufacture or shipment of our products. This could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, thus materially affecting our sales and results of operations.While we require that our independent manufacturers adhere to environmental, ethical, health, safety, and other standard business practices and applicable local laws, and we periodically visit and audit their operations, we do not control their business 11Table of Contentspractices. If we discovered non-compliant manufacturers or suppliers that cannot or will not become compliant, we would cease dealing with them, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply chain. In addition, the manufacturers' or designated suppliers' violations of such standards and laws could damage our reputation and the value of our brands, resulting in negative publicity and discouraging customers and consumers from buying our products. We conduct business outside the US, which exposes us to foreign currency, global liquidity, and other risks.The state of the global economy continues to influence the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This affects our business as it is highly dependent on consumer demand for our products. The current political and economic environments in certain countries in Europe have resulted in significant macroeconomic risks, including high rates of unemployment, high fuel prices, and continued global economic uncertainty largely precipitated by the European debt crisis.We operate on a global basis, with approximately 33.0% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 from operations outside the US. As we continue to increase our international operations, our sales and expenditures in foreign currencies become more material and subject to currency fluctuations and global credit markets. A significant portion of our international operating expenses are paid in local currencies. Also, our foreign distributors sell in local currencies, which impacts the price to foreign consumers. Many of our subsidiaries operate with their local currency as their functional currency. We currently utilize forward contracts or other derivative instruments for the amounts we expect to purchase and sell in foreign currencies to mitigate exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate. As we continue to expand international operations and increase purchases and sales in foreign currencies, we will evaluate and may utilize additional derivative instruments, as needed, to hedge our foreign currency exposures. Our hedging strategies depend on our forecasts of sales, expenses, and cash flows, which are inherently subject to inaccuracies. Therefore, our hedging strategies may be ineffective. Future changes in foreign currency exchange rates and global credit markets may cause changes in the US dollar value of our purchases or sales and materially affect our sales, profit margins, or results of operations, when converted to US dollars. In addition, the failure of financial institutions that underwrite our derivative contracts may negate our efforts to hedge our foreign currency exposures and result in material foreign currency or contract losses. Foreign currency hedging activities, transactions, or translations could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.While our purchases from overseas factories are currently denominated in US dollars, certain operating and manufacturing costs of the factories are denominated in other currencies. As a result, fluctuations in these currencies versus the US dollar could impact our purchase prices from the factories in the event that they adjust their selling prices accordingly. Key business processes and supporting information systems could be interrupted and adversely affect our business.Our future success and growth depend on the continued operation of our key business processes, including information systems, global communications, the internet, and key personnel. Hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage. Key processes could also be interrupted by a failure due to weather, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer systems, sabotage, terrorism, or similar event such that:•critical business systems become inoperable or require significant costs to restore;•key personnel are unable to perform their duties, communicate, or access information systems;•significant quantities of merchandise are damaged or destroyed;•we are required to make unanticipated investment in state-of-the-art technologies and security measures;•key wholesale and distributor customers cannot place or receive orders;•E-Commerce customer orders may not be received or fulfilled;•confidential information about our customers may be misappropriated or lost damaging our reputation and customer relationships;•we are exposed to unanticipated liabilities; or•carriers cannot ship or unload shipments.These interruptions to key business processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and result in lost sales and reduced earnings.12Table of ContentsWe rely on our information management, internet cloud providers, and other enterprise resource planning systems to operate our business, prepare forecasts and track our operating results. Our information management and enterprise planning systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded information technology systems, including loss of data, unreliable data, and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with the new systems. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to competitively modify our information management systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business and report financial results could be adversely affected.The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could also harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. We may not be able to attract or retain highly capable employees who can achieve our strategic goals and objectives.Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could also harm our business through business process interruptions, loss of institutional knowledge, and recruitment and training costs. We could be adversely affected by the loss of our warehouses.The warehousing of our inventory is located at a limited number of self-managed domestic facilities and self-managed and third party managed international facilities, the loss of any of which could adversely impact our sales, business performance, and operating results. In addition, we could face a significant disruption in our domestic distribution center operations if our automated pick module does not perform as anticipated or ceases to function for an extended period, or if our plans for a new distribution facility are disrupted or delayed. Our sales in international markets are subject to a variety of laws and political and economic risks that may adversely impact our sales and results of operations in certain regions, which could increase our costs and adversely impact our operating results.Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations that could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. These include:•changes in currency exchange rates, which impact the price to international consumers;•ability to move currency out of international markets;•the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, the interpretation and application of which are uncertain;•legal costs and penalties related to defending allegations of non-compliance;•unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements;•inability to successfully import into a country;•changes in tax laws;•complications due to lack of familiarity with local customs;•difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures;•political instability;•changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and•general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. International trade and import regulations may impose unexpected duty costs or other non-tariff barriers to markets while the increasing number of free trade agreements has the potential to stimulate increased competition; security procedures may cause significant delays.13Table of ContentsProducts manufactured overseas and imported into the US and other countries are subject to import duties. While we have implemented internal measures to comply with applicable customs regulations and to properly calculate the import duties applicable to imported products, customs authorities may disagree with our claimed tariff treatment for certain products, resulting in unexpected costs that may not have been factored into the sales price of the products and our forecasted gross margins.We cannot predict whether future domestic laws, regulations or trade remedy actions or international agreements may impose additional duties or other restrictions on the importation of products from one or more of our sourcing venues. Such changes could increase the cost of our products, require us to withdraw from certain restricted markets, or change our business methods and could make it difficult to obtain products of our customary quality at a competitive price. Meanwhile, the continued negotiation of bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements by the US and our other market countries with countries other than our principal sourcing venues may stimulate competition from manufacturers in these other sourcing venues, which now export, or may seek to export, footwear and accessories to our target markets at preferred rates of duty, which may have an effect on our sales and operations.Additionally, the increased threat of terrorist activity and law enforcement responses to this threat have required greater levels of inspection of imported goods and have caused delays in bringing imported goods to market. Any tightening of security procedures, for example, in the aftermath of a terrorist incident, could worsen these delays and increase our costs. Our revolving credit facility provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions.From time to time, we have financed our liquidity needs in part from borrowing made under a revolving credit facility. Our credit facility provides for a committed revolving credit line of up to $400,000. Our obligations under the agreement are guaranteed by our existing and future domestic subsidiaries, other than certain immaterial subsidiaries and foreign subsidiaries, and are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and our subsidiaries' assets, including a portion of the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. The agreement for our credit facility also contains a number of customary financial covenants and restrictions, which may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the credit agreement could result in a default. A default under the credit agreement could cause the lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on essentially all of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at variable interest rates, which we do not anticipate hedging against, increases in interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, resulting in a decline in our net income and cash flow. There were no outstanding borrowings under our committed revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we have a credit facility in China (China Credit Facility), which provides for an uncommitted revolving line of credit of up to CNY 60,000, or approximately $10,000. At December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $10,000 of outstanding borrowings under the China Credit Facility. The tax laws applicable to our business are very complex and we may be subject to additional tax liabilities as a result of audits by various taxing authorities or changes in tax laws applicable to our business.We conduct our operations through subsidiaries in several countries including the US, the UK, Japan, China, Hong Kong, Macau, the Netherlands, Bermuda, France, and Canada. As a result, we are subject to tax laws and regulations in each of those jurisdictions, and to tax treaties between the US and other nations. These tax laws are highly complex, and significant judgment and specialized expertise is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision for income taxes.We are subject to audits in each of the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, and any of these jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us as a result of their audits. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, and we undertake to prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and may require a restatement of prior financial reports at a material cost. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, or interest assessments.We are also subject to constant changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties in and between the nations in which we operate. Our tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the US, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. It is possible that tax proposals could result in changes to the existing US tax laws that affect us. We are unable to predict whether any proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could increase our income tax liability and adversely affect our net income and long term effective tax rates.14Table of Contents We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed.The footwear industry is highly competitive, and many new competitors have entered into the marketplace. We believe that some of these competitors have entered the market place in response to the success of our brands and that such competitors have targeted or intend to target our products with their product offerings. Additionally, we have experienced increased competition from established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution resources than we do, as well as greater brand awareness in the footwear and accessory markets. Our competitors include fashion, athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and develop new products more quickly. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing has made it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear and accessory industries.Additionally, efforts by our competitors to dispose of their excess inventories may significantly reduce prices that we can expect to receive for the sale of our competing products and may cause our consumers to shift their purchases away from our products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and earnings will decline, as will the value of our business, financial condition, and common stock price. The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation.We are involved in various claims, litigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings and governmental investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Due to inherent uncertainties of litigation and other such proceedings and investigations, we cannot predict with accuracy the ultimate outcome of any such matters. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and results of operations. The amount of insurance coverage we maintain to address such matters may be inadequate to cover these or other claims. In addition, any significant litigation, investigation, or proceeding, regardless of its merits, could divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations or could negatively impact our reputation in the marketplace. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders.Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. While our average daily trading volume for the 52-week period ended February 14, 2014 was approximately 1,180,000 shares, we have experienced more limited volume in the past and may do so in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing prices of our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have ranged from $40.35 to $88.56 for the 52-week period ended February 14, 2014. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following:•changes in expectations of our future performance, whether realized or perceived;•changes in estimates by securities analysts or failure to meet such estimates;•published research and opinions by securities analysts and other market forecasters;•changes in our credit ratings;•the financial results and liquidity of our customers;•shift of revenue recognition as a result of changes in our distribution model, delivery of merchandise, or entering into agreements with related parties;•claims brought against us by a regulatory agency or our stockholders;•quarterly fluctuations in our sales, expenses, and financial results;•general equity market conditions and investor sentiment;•economic conditions and consumer confidence;•broad market fluctuations in volume and price;•increasing short sales of our stock;15Table of Contents•announcements to repurchase our stock;•the declaration of stock or cash dividends; and•a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other periodic reports.In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Accordingly, the price of our common stock is volatile and any investment in our stock is subject to risk of loss. These broad market and industry factors and other general macroeconomic conditions unrelated to our financial performance may also affect our common stock price. The loss, theft or misuse of sensitive customer or company information, or the failure or interruption of key information technology and resource planning systems, could materially adversely affect our business.Our business involves the storage and transmission of sensitive information including the personal information of our customers, credit card information, employee information, data relating to consumer preferences, and proprietary company financial and strategic data. The protection of our customer, employee and company data is vitally important to us as the loss, theft or misuse of such information could lead to significant reputational or competitive harm, litigation and potential liability. As a result, we believe that our future success and growth depends, in part, on the ability of our key business processes, including our information and global communication systems, to prevent the theft, loss or misuse of this sensitive information. However, as with many businesses, we are subject to numerous security and cybersecurity risks which may prevent us from maintaining the privacy of sensitive information and require us to expend significant resources attempting to secure such information.As has been well documented in the media, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies, and we may be vulnerable to similar security breaches. While we have expended, and will continue to expend, resources to protect our customers and ourselves against these breaches and to ensure an effective response to a security or cybersecurity breach, we cannot be certain that we will be able to adequately defend against any such breach. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or attack our systems are constantly evolving and, in some cases, becoming more sophisticated and harder to detect. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures in response, and any breaches that we do not detect may remain undetected for some period. In addition, measures that we do take to prevent risks of fraud and security breaches have the potential to harm relations with our customers or suppliers, or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use or restricting the ability to meet our customers' expectations in terms of their online shopping experience. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs.In addition, we rely on certain information technology management and enterprise resource planning systems to prepare sales forecasts, track our financial and operating results, and otherwise operate our business. As our business grows and we expand into additional distribution channels and geographic regions, these systems may require expansion or modification. We may experience difficulties expanding these information technology and resource planning systems or transitioning to new or upgraded systems, which may result in loss of data or unreliable data, decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with the new systems, and increased costs for the implementation of the new or upgraded systems. If we are unable to modify our information technology or resource planning systems to respond to changes in our business needs, or if we experience a failure or interruption in these systems, our ability to accurately forecast sales, report our financial and operating results, or otherwise operate our business could be adversely affected.Changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Volatile economic conditions and general changes in the market have affected, and will likely continue to affect consumer spending generally and the buying habits and preferences of our customers and end-user consumers in particular. A significant portion of the products we sell, especially those sold under the UGG brand, are considered to be luxury retail products. The purchase of these products by consumers is largely discretionary, and is therefore highly dependent upon the level of consumer spending, particularly among affluent consumers. Sales of these products may be adversely affected by a continuation or worsening of recent economic conditions, increases in consumer debt levels, uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, or a decline in consumer confidence. During an actual or perceived economic downturn, fewer consumers may shop for our products and those who do shop may limit the amounts of their purchases. As a result, we could be required to reduce the price we can charge for our products or increase our marketing and promotional expenses in response to lower than anticipated levels of demand for our products. In either case, these changes, or other similar changes in our marketing strategy, would reduce our revenues and profit margins and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.16Table of ContentsWe sell our products through higher-end specialty and department store retailers. These retailer customers may be impacted by continuing economic uncertainty, reduced customer demand for luxury products, and a significant decrease in available credit. If reduced consumer spending, lower demand for luxury products, or credit pressures result in financial difficulties or insolvency for these customers, it would adversely impact our estimated allowances and reserves as well as our overall financial results. Also, economic factors such as increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, and higher insurance and healthcare costs may increase our cost of sales and our operating expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business, access to credit, and trading price of common stock could be materially and adversely affected if the current economic conditions do not improve or worsen. Our financial success is influenced by the success of our customers.Much of our financial success is directly related to the success of our retailers and distributor partners to market and sell our brands through to the consumer. If a retailer fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult to locate an acceptable substitute retailer. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to either locate an acceptable substitute distributor or convert to a wholesale direct model. If a change becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, loss of customers, increased credit risk, and increased inventory risk, as well as substantial disruption to operations and a potential loss of sales.We currently do not have long-term contracts with any of our retailers. We do have contracts with our distributors with terms ranging up to five-years, however, while these contracts may have annual purchase minimums which must be met in order to retain the distribution rights, the distributors are not otherwise obligated to purchase product. Sales to our retailers and distributors are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by our wholesale customers. We use the timing of delivery dates in our wholesale customer orders to forecast our sales and earnings for future periods. If any of our major customers, including independent distributors, experience a significant downturn in business or fail to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers could postpone, reduce, or discontinue purchases from us. As a result, we could experience a decline in sales or gross margins, write downs of excess inventory, increased discounts or extended credit terms to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and our common stock price.Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 23.0% of worldwide net sales in 2013 and 22.8% of worldwide net sales in 2012. Any loss of a key customer, the financial collapse or bankruptcy of a key customer, or a significant reduction in purchases from a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.