Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our short- and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. Stockholders and potential stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report and the information incorporated by reference in this report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline and stockholders and potential stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating To Our Business Our success depends on our ability to anticipate fashion trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our Teva, UGG and Simple brands, on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to the rapidly changing fashion tastes of footwear consumers and to provide appealing merchandise in a timely and cost effective manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We are also dependent on customer receptivity to our products and marketing strategy. There can be no assurance that consumers will continue to prefer our brands, that we will respond quickly enough to changes in consumer preferences or that we will successfully introduce acceptable new models and styles of footwear to our target consumer. Achieving market acceptance for new products also will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts and expend significant funds to create consumer demand. A failure to introduce new products that gain market acceptance would erode our competitive position, which would reduce our profits and could adversely affect the image of our brands, resulting in long-term harm to our business. Our UGG brand may not continue to grow at the same rate it has experienced in the recent past. Our UGG brand has experienced strong growth over the past few years, with net wholesale sales of UGG brand products having increased from $23,491 in 2002 to $291,908 in 2007, representing a compound annual growth rate of 65.5%. We do not expect to sustain this growth rate in the future. UGG brand products may include fashion items that could go out of style at any time. UGG brand products represent a significant portion of our business, and if UGG brand product sales were to decline or to fail to increase in the future, our overall financial performance could be adversely affected. Our Teva brand may decline. During 2007, our Teva brand experienced an increase in net wholesale sales of 8.9% compared to 2006. However, during 2006 and 2005, Teva experienced declines in revenue of 6.4% and 3.6% compared to 2005 and 2004, respectively. We conducted our annual impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and concluded that the fair value of our Teva trademarks was above the carrying value as of December 31, 2007 but was below the carrying value as of December 31, 2006. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded an impairment loss of $15,300, included in income from operations. If Teva product sales decline again to a point that the fair value of our Teva trademarks or reporting unit do not exceed carrying values, we may be required to further write down the related intangible assets, the goodwill or both, causing us to incur additional impairment losses, which could materially affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may experience shortages of top grade sheepskin, which could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of key resources for sheepskin, the principal raw material for most of our UGG brand products. In 2007, two suppliers provided all of the sheepskin purchased by 18 our independent manufacturers. The top grade sheepskin used in UGG brand footwear is in high demand and limited supply. In addition, sheep are susceptible to hoof and mouth disease, which can result in the extermination of an infected herd and could have a material adverse effect on the availability of top grade sheepskin for our products. Additionally, the supply of sheepskin can be adversely impacted by weather conditions and harvesting decisions that are completely outside our control. Our potential inability to obtain top grade sheepskin for UGG brand products could impair our ability to meet our production requirements for UGG brand products in a timely manner and could lead to inventory shortages, which can result in lost sales, delays in shipments to customers, strain on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Additionally, there have been significant increases in the prices of top grade sheepskin as the demand for this material has increased. Any further price increases will likely raise our costs, increase our costs of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass the higher prices on to our customers. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have difficulty filling our customers' orders. Because the footwear industry has relatively long lead times for design and production, we must plan our production tooling and production volumes many months before consumer tastes become apparent. The footwear industry is subject to fashion risks and rapid changes in consumer preferences, as well as the effects of weather, general market conditions and other factors affecting demand. A large number of models, colors and styles in our three product lines increase these risks. As a result, we may fail to accurately forecast styles, colors and features that will be in demand. If we overestimate demand for any products or styles, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in higher markdowns and lower, or negative, gross margins. Further, the excess inventories may prolong our cash flow cycle, resulting in reduced cash flow and increased liquidity risks. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for any products or styles, we could have inventory shortages, which could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. This may be particularly true with regard to our UGG brand product line, which has experienced strong consumer demand and rapid sales growth. We may not succeed in implementing our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to enhance the positioning of our brands, extend our brands into complementary product categories and markets through licensing, expand geographically and improve our operational performance. We may not be able to successfully implement any or all of our strategies. If we fail to do so, our rate of growth may slow or our results of operations may decline, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Our financial success is limited to the success of our customers. Our financial success is directly related to the success of our customers and the willingness of our customers to continue to buy our products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to our customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by our customers. If any of our major customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one or more of these key customers would significantly reduce our sales. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 27.6% of net sales in 2006 and 30.4% of net sales in 2007. Nordstrom, our largest customer, accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2006 and 2007. Any potential loss of a key customer, or a significant reduction in purchases from a key 19 customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Establishing and protecting our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property is costly and difficult. If our efforts to do so are unsuccessful, the value of our brands could suffer. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are of value and are integral to our success and our competitive position. Some countries' laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. From time to time, we discover products in the marketplace that infringe upon our trademark, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party's products on the basis of patent and trade dress rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our brands are associated with competitors' inferior products, this could also adversely affect the integrity of our brands. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights are typically met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. Similarly, from time to time we may be the subject of litigation challenging our ownership of intellectual property. Any decision or settlement in any of these matters that allowed a third party to continue to use our Teva, UGG or Simple trademarks or a domain name with our UGG trademark in connection with the sale of products similar to our products or to continue to manufacture or distribute counterfeit products could have an adverse effect on our sales and on our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may lose pending litigation and the rights to certain of our intellectual property. We are currently involved in several disputes, including cases pending in U.S. federal and foreign courts and in foreign trademark offices, regarding infringement by third parties of our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property and the validity of our intellectual property. Any decision or settlement in any of these disputes that renders our intellectual property invalid or unenforceable, or that allows a third party to continue to use our intellectual property in connection with products that are similar to ours, could have an adverse effect on our sales and on our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Counterfeiting of our brands can divert sales and damage our brand image. Our brands and designs are constantly at risk for counterfeiting and infringement of our intellectual property rights, and we frequently find counterfeit products and products that infringe on our intellectual property rights in our markets and online as well as internet domain names that use our trade names or trademarks without our consent. We have not always been successful, particularly in some foreign countries, in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights. Counterfeit and infringing products not only cause us to lose significant sales, but also can harm the integrity of our brands by associating our trademarks or designs with lesser quality or defective goods. In particular, we are experiencing more infringers of our UGG trademark and more counterfeit products seeking to benefit from the consumer demand for our UGG brand products. Enforcement of our rights to the UGG trademark faces many challenges due in part to the proliferation of the term "UGG" in third party domain names that promote counterfeit products or otherwise use the UGG trademark without our permission. In spite of our enforcement efforts, we expect such unauthorized use to continue, which could result in a loss of sales for authorized UGG brand products and a reduction in the goodwill and other intangible assets associated with the UGG trademark. 20 As our patents expire, our competitors will be able to copy our technology or incorporate it in their products without paying royalties. Patents generally have a life of twenty years from filing, and some of our patents have recently expired or will expire in the next few years. For example, the patent for our Universal Strapping System used in many of our Teva sandals expired in September 2007. Our Universal Strapping System is currently used in many of our Teva sandals. Once patent protection has expired, our competitors can copy our products or incorporate our innovations in their products without obtaining our permission or paying royalties, which could also cause us to lose significant sales. To combat this, we must continually create new designs and technology, obtain patent protection and incorporate the new technology or design in our footwear; however, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to do so. If our customers cancel existing orders, we may have excess inventory. If customers postpone delivery of existing orders to future periods, we may not achieve sales and earnings targets for the period, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. We receive customer orders and indications of future orders, which we use to determine which inventory items in what quantities to purchase. We also use the timing of delivery dates in our customer orders to forecast our sales and earnings for future periods. If our customers cancel existing orders, it may result in lower sales as well as excess inventories that could lead to increased inventory write-downs and closeout sales, resulting in lower gross margins. The excess inventories could also have a negative impact on our cash flow. If customers postpone delivery of their orders, we may not achieve our expected sales and earnings forecasts for the period, which could have a negative impact on our results from operations as well as our stock price. Because we depend on independent manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a continuous supply of goods that meet our quality standards. We use independent manufacturers to produce all of our products, with the majority of the production occurring among six manufacturers in China. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain manufacturing capacity. The manufacturers in turn depend upon their suppliers of raw materials. We do not exert direct control over either the independent manufacturers or their raw materials suppliers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with these independent manufacturers, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality from our independent manufacturers. If there is an interruption, we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative manufacturers because substitutes may not be available or they may not be able to provide us with products or services of a comparable quality at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. If a change in our independent manufacturers becomes necessary, we would likely experience increased costs as well as substantial disruption of our business, which could result in a loss of sales and earnings. Similarly, if we experience a significant increase in demand and a manufacturer is unable to ship orders of our products in accordance with our timing demands and our quality standards, we could miss customer delivery date requirements. This in turn could result in cancellation of orders, customer refusals of shipments or a reduction in selling prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. We compete with other companies for the production capacity and the import quota capacity of our manufacturers. Accordingly, our independent manufacturers may not produce and ship some or all of any orders placed by us. 21 If raw materials do not meet our specifications or if the prices of raw materials increase, we could experience a high return rate, a loss of sales or a reduction in our gross margins. Our independent manufacturers use various raw materials in the manufacture of our footwear that must meet our specifications generally and, in some cases, additional technical requirements for performance footwear. If these raw materials and the end product do not perform to our specifications or consumer satisfaction, we could experience a higher rate of customer returns and deterioration in the image of our brands, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be significant increases in the prices of the raw materials used in our footwear, which would likely increase the cost of our products from our independent manufacturers. Our gross profit margins are adversely affected to the extent that the selling prices of our products do not increase proportionately with increases in their costs. Any significant unanticipated increase in the prices of raw materials could materially affect our results of operations. No assurances can be given that we will be protected from future changes in the prices of such raw materials. The costs of production and transportation of our products can increase as petroleum and other energy prices rise. The manufacture and transportation of our products requires the use of petroleum-based materials and energy costs. Any future increases in the costs of these materials and energy sources will increase the cost of our goods which will reduce our gross margin unless we can successfully raise our selling prices to compensate for the increased costs. Our independent manufacturers are located outside the U.S., where we are subject to the risks of international commerce. All of our current third party manufacturers are in China and New Zealand with substantially all production performed by six manufacturers in China. Foreign manufacturing is subject to numerous risks, including the following: •tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules on raw materials and finished products, including the potential threat of anti-dumping duties and quotas such as those which may be imposed by the European Union on the import of certain types of footwear from China; •increasing transportation costs due to energy prices or other factors; •poor infrastructure and shortages of equipment, which can delay or interrupt transportation and utilities; •foreign currency fluctuations; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •changing economic conditions; •changes in governmental policies; •environmental regulations; •labor unrest, which can lead to work stoppages and interruptions in transportation or supply; •shipping delays, including those resulting from labor issues, work stoppages or other delays at the port of entry or port of departure; •political unrest, which can interrupt commerce and make travel dangerous; and 22 •expropriation and nationalization. In particular, because most of our products are manufactured in China, adverse change in consumer perception of goods from China, trade or political relations with China or political instability in China could severely interfere with the manufacture of our products and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are also subject to general risks associated with managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S. and understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. Our business could suffer if our independent manufacturers, designated suppliers or our licensees violate labor laws or fail to conform to our ethical standards. We require our independent contract manufacturers and designated suppliers to adopt our Factory Charter and to comply with all local laws and regulations governing human rights working conditions and environmental protection before we are willing to place business with them. Nevertheless we do not control the labor practices of these factories and suppliers. If one of them violates our labor standards by, for example, using convicted, forced or indentured labor or child labor, fails to pay compensation in accordance with local law or fails to operate its factories in compliance with local safety or environmental requirements, we likely would immediately cease dealing with that manufacturer or supplier, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply chain. In addition, the manufacturers' or designated suppliers' actions could damage our reputation and the value of our brands, resulting in negative publicity and discouraging customers and consumers from buying our products. Similarly, we do not control our licensees or any of their suppliers or their respective labor practices. If one of our licensees violates our labor standards or local laws, we would likely immediately terminate the license agreement, which would reduce our license revenue. In addition, the licensee's actions could damage our reputation and the value of our brands. We also may not be able to replace the licensee. If our licensing partners are unable to meet our expectations regarding the quality of their products or the conduct of their business, the value of our brands could suffer. One element of our growth strategy depends on our ability to successfully enter into and maintain license agreements with manufacturers and distributors of products in complementary categories. We will be relying on our licensees to maintain our standards with their manufacturers in the future, and any failure to do so could harm our reputation and the value of the licensed brand. The interruption of the business of any one of our material licensing partners due to any of the factors discussed immediately below could also adversely affect our future licensing sales and net income. The risks associated with our own products will also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: •obtain capital; •manage manufacturing and product sourcing activities; •manage labor relations; •maintain relationships with suppliers; •manage credit risk effectively; and 23 •maintain relationships with customers. Our licensing agreements generally do not preclude our licensing partners from offering, under other brands, products similar to those covered by their license agreements with us, which could reduce the sales of our licensed products. In addition, if we cannot replace existing licensing partners who fail to perform adequately, our net sales, both directly from reduced licensing revenue and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products, will suffer. We may be unable to successfully identify, develop, acquire or build new brands. We intend to continue to focus on identifying, developing, acquiring and building new brands. Our search may not yield any complementary brands, and even if we do find a suitable brand we may not be able to finance the development or acquisition of the brand. We may not be able to successfully integrate the management of an acquired brand into our existing operations, and we cannot ensure that any developed or acquired brand will achieve the results we expect. We compete with other companies who have greater resources than we do for the opportunities to buy other brands. As a result, even if we identify a suitable acquisition, we may lose the opportunity to a competitor who offers a more attractive price or package. In such event, we may incur significant costs in pursuing an acquisition without success, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our quarterly sales and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and if we fail to meet expectations the price of our common stock may decline. Our quarterly sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our quarterly sales or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our sales and operating results include the following: •variation in demand for our products, including variation due to changing consumer tastes and seasonality; •our ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products and product enhancements in a timely manner; •our ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; •our ability to control costs; •the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of orders from customers; •the introduction of new products by competitors; •the availability and reliability of raw materials used to manufacture our products; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our independent manufacturers and competitors, as well as increased price competition in general; •the mix of our domestic and international sales, and the risks and uncertainties associated with our international business; •our ability to forecast future sales and operating results and subsequently attain them; •developments concerning the protection of our intellectual property rights; and •general global economic and political conditions, including international conflicts and acts of terrorism. 24 In addition, our expenses depend, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales. In particular, we expect to continue incurring substantial expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of our products as well as expenditures for property and equipment and personnel. Since many of our costs are fixed in the short term, if we have a shortfall in sales, we may be unable to reduce expenses quickly enough to avoid losses. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Loss of the services of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and our senior executives as well as other key officers and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee could materially affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel and to identify and hire suitable replacements for departing employees in key positions on a timely basis. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. We conduct business outside the U.S., which exposes us to foreign currency and other risks. Our products are manufactured outside the U.S., and our independent manufacturers procure most of their supplies outside the U.S. We sell our products in the U.S. and internationally. Although we pay for the purchase and manufacture of our products primarily in U.S. dollars and we sell our products primarily in U.S. dollars, we are routinely subject to currency rate movements on non-U.S. denominated assets, liabilities and income since our foreign distributors sell in local currencies, which impacts the price to foreign customers. We currently do not use currency hedges since substantially all our transactions are in U.S. dollars. Future changes in foreign currency exchange rates may cause changes in the dollar value of our purchases or sales and materially affect our results of operations. In 2005, the People's Republic of China revalued its currency and abandoned its peg to the U.S. dollar. We currently source substantially all production from China. While our purchases from the Chinese factories are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, certain operating and manufacturing costs of the factories are denominated in the Chinese currency. As a result, any further revaluations in the Chinese currency versus the U.S. dollar could impact our purchase prices from the factories in the event that they adjust their selling prices accordingly. Any increase in our footwear purchase costs will reduce our gross margin unless we are able to raise our selling prices to our customers in order to compensate for the increased costs. Our most popular products are seasonal, and our sales are sensitive to weather conditions. Sales of our products, particularly those under the Teva and UGG brands, are highly seasonal and are sensitive to weather conditions. Extended periods of unusually cold weather during the spring and summer can reduce demand for Teva footwear. Likewise, unseasonably warm weather during the fall and winter months may reduce demand for our UGG brand products. The effect of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales can be significant enough to affect our quarterly results, with a resulting effect on our common stock price. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in international markets. We sell our products in international markets through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales. 25 Our sales in international markets are subject to a variety of laws and political and economic risks that may adversely impact our sales and results of operations in certain regions, such as the recent changes in labor laws in the People's Republic of China, which could increase our costs and adversely impact our operating results. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations. These include: •changes in currency exchange rates which impact the price to international consumers; •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and •the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international sales operations, including: •political instability; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and •general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. Any of the above mentioned factors could adversely affect our sales and results of operations in international markets. International trade regulations may impose unexpected duty costs or other non-tariff barriers to markets while the increasing number of free trade agreements has the potential to stimulate increased competition; security procedures may cause significant delays. Products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S. and other countries are subject to import duties. While we have implemented internal measures to comply with applicable customs regulations and to properly calculate the import duties applicable to imported products, customs authorities may disagree with our claimed tariff treatment for certain products, resulting in unexpected costs that may not have been factored into the sales price of the products. We cannot predict whether future domestic laws, regulations or trade remedy actions or international agreements may impose additional duties or other restrictions on the importation of products from one or more of our sourcing venues. Such changes could increase the cost of our products, require us to withdraw from certain restricted markets or change our business methods, and could generally make it difficult to obtain products of our customary quality at a desired price. Meanwhile, the continued negotiation of bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements by the U.S. and our other market countries with countries other than our principal sourcing venues may stimulate competition from manufacturers in these other sourcing venues, which now export, or may seek to export, footwear to our market countries at preferred rates of duty, though we are uncertain precisely what effect these new agreements may have on our operations. The European Union is currently considering imposing anti-dumping duties and quotas on importations of certain types of footwear from China. Any increase in duties or the requirement for quotas will increase the cost of our products and may limit the amount of China-sourced products that we are able to sell to the European market. Because the vast majority of our footwear is currently produced in China, the imposition of anti-dumping duties or quotas on products manufactured in China will have a negative impact on our sales and gross margin in the European market. 26 Finally, the increased threat of terrorist activity and the law enforcement responses to this threat have required greater levels of inspection of imported goods and have caused delays in bringing imported goods to market. Any tightening of security procedures, for example, in the aftermath of a terrorist incident, could worsen these delays and increase our costs. We depend on our computer and communications systems. We extensively utilize computer and communications systems to operate our eCommerce business and manage our internal operations. Any interruption of this service from power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer system, failure due to weather, natural disasters or any similar event could disrupt our operations and result in lost sales. In addition, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies. Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations, and if we fail to manage any future growth effectively we may experience greater difficulty in filling customer orders, declines in product quality, increases in costs or other operating difficulties. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past two years, and we anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and new market opportunities. Over the last two years, we expanded from approximately 225 employees at December 31, 2005 to approximately 420 employees at December 31, 2007, and $264,760 in revenues in 2005 to $448,929 in revenues in 2007. The expansion of the scope and nature of our business and the growth in the number of employees, customers and other third parties with whom we have relationships, and in the number of facilities we use for manufacturing, distribution, and corporate operations, have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management and our information systems and resources. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality or increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one of our warehouses or one of our manufacturer's facilities. Both the warehousing of our inventory and the manufacturing of our products are located at a small number of facilities, the loss of any of which could adversely impact our sales, business performance and operating results. 27 We could be adversely affected by volatile credit markets and other unfavorable economic conditions. We finance our working capital and operating needs using a combination of our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and, when needed, the credit availability under our revolving credit facility. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, we may be unable to realize a return on our cash equivalents or short-term investments or to secure additional credit on favorable terms. This could lead to write-downs of our cash equivalents and short-term investments. Such failures may impact our working capital reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business. During the latter part of 2007, U.S. and foreign credit markets experienced adverse conditions, including unusual volatility and a lack of secondary market liquidity, which conditions have presented, and continue to present, significant challenges to the investment markets and have limited the availability of short-term debt for working capital. While it is difficult to predict how long these adverse conditions will exist, these factors, if continuing or worsening, could adversely impact our future financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Because the footwear market is sensitive to decreased consumer spending and slow economic cycles, if general economic conditions deteriorate, many of our customers may significantly reduce their purchases from us or may not be able to pay for our products in a timely manner. The footwear industry historically has been subject to cyclical variation and decline in performance when consumer spending decreases or softness appears in the retail market. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the footwear industry, including: •general business conditions; •interest rates; •financial market conditions •the availability of consumer credit; •change in demographic spending; •weather; •taxation; and •consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in economies where we or our distribution partners sell products, whether in the U.S. or abroad, may reduce sales. In addition, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition. Many retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties during the past several years, thereby increasing the risk that such customers may not be able to pay for our products in a timely manner. Our bad debt expense may increase relative to net sales in the future. Any significant increase in our bad debt expense relative to net sales would adversely impact our net income and cash flow and could affect our ability to pay our own obligations as they become due. 28 We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive, and the recent growth in the market for sport sandals, casual footwear and other products manufactured by our licensees has encouraged the entry of many new competitors into the marketplace as well as increased competition from established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do, as well as greater brand awareness in the footwear market. Our competitors include athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies and retailers with their own private labels. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing has made it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. Additionally, efforts by our competitors to dispose of their excess inventories may significantly reduce prices that we can expect to receive for the sale of our competing products and may cause our customers to shift their purchases away from our products. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the quality, style and authenticity of our products and the strength of our brands, as well as many factors beyond our control. Maintaining our competitiveness depends on our ability to defend our products from infringement, our continued ability to anticipate and react to consumer tastes and our continued ability to deliver quality products at an acceptable price. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits will decline, as will the value of our business, financial condition and common stock. Consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry could affect the ability of our wholesale customers to purchase and market our products. In the future, retailers in the U.S. and in foreign markets may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the concentration of ownership within the retail industry, including: •consolidating their operations; •undergoing restructurings; •undergoing reorganizations; or •realigning their affiliations. These consolidations could result in a shift of bargaining power to the retail industry and in fewer outlets for our products. Further consolidations could result in price and other competition that could reduce our margins and our net sales. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. While our average daily trading volume for the 52-week period ended February 15, 2008 was approximately 490,000 shares, we have experienced more limited volume in the past and may do so in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing prices of our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have ranged from $61.45 to $164.91 for the 29 52-week period ended February 15, 2008. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: •changes in expectations of our future performance, whether realized or perceived; •changes in estimates by securities analysts or failure to meet such estimates; •quarterly fluctuations in our sales and financial results; •general equity market conditions and investor sentiment; •broad market fluctuations in volume and price; and •a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other periodic reports. Accordingly, the price of our common stock is volatile and any investment in our securities is subject to risk of loss. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such a change in control might benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for our common stock. These provisions include the following: •authorization of "blank check" preferred stock, which our board of directors could issue with provisions designed to thwart a takeover attempt; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •a prohibition against stockholder action by written consent and a requirement that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and •advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholder meetings. We adopted a stockholder rights plan in 1998 under a stockholder rights agreement intended to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of our company that do not offer what our board of directors believes to be an adequate price to all stockholders or that our board of directors otherwise opposes. As part of the plan, our board of directors declared a dividend that resulted in the issuance of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock. Unless extended, the preferred share purchase rights will terminate on November 11, 2008. If a bidder proceeds with an unsolicited attempt to purchase our stock and acquires 20% or more (or announces its intention to acquire 20% or more) of our outstanding common stock, and the board of directors does not redeem the preferred stock purchase right, the right will become exercisable at a price that significantly dilutes the interest of the bidder in our common stock. The effect of the stockholder rights plan is to make it more difficult to acquire our company without negotiating with the board of directors. However, the stockholder rights plan could discourage offers even if made at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and even if the stockholders might believe the transaction would benefit them. 30 In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation with our board of directors. These provisions apply even if some stockholders would consider the transaction beneficial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 