Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policy. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and non-performing assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Western Pennsylvania because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. There are increased risks involved with speculative construction, land acquisition and development, multi-family residential, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by speculative construction, land acquisition and development and commercial real estate. In addition, from time to time we originate loans for the purchase 27 or refinancing of multi-family residential real estate. Speculative residential construction, land acquisition and development, multi-family residential and commercial real estate lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans and loans secured by automobiles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and leases and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. The Company invests in mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) including significant legacy positions in private label MBS (“PLMBS”) which could result in impairment charges. The Company invests in MBS, including agency and private label MBS. These investments carry a significant amount of risk, relative to other investments within the Company’s portfolio. The total MBS portfolio accounts for 30.8% of the Company’s total assets and 13.0% of the Company’s total interest income. The PLMBS segment accounts for 10.0% of the Company’s total assets and 8.3% of the Company’s total interest income. MBS are secured by mortgage properties that are geographically diverse, but may include exposure in some areas that have experienced rapidly declining property values. The MBS portfolio is also subject to interest rate risk, prepayment risk, operational risk, servicer risk and originator risk, all of which can have a negative impact on the underlying collateral of the MBS investments. The rate and timing of unscheduled payments and collections of principal on mortgage loans serving as collateral for these securities are difficult to predict and can be affected by a variety of factors, including the level of prevailing interest rates, restrictions on voluntary prepayments contained in the mortgage loans, the availability of lender credit, loan modifications and other economic, demographic, geographic, tax and legal factors. During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded a $194 thousand credit impairment charge and a $2.3 million non-credit unrealized holding loss (net of income tax effect of $1.2 million) to accumulated other comprehensive income. During fiscal 2011, the Company was able to accrete back into other comprehensive income $496 thousand (net of income tax effect of $256 thousand) based on principal repayments on private-label mortgage-backed securities previously identified with OTTI. Cash repayments of principal on the Company’s PLMBS portfolio totaled $22.1 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to $9.2 million in fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2011, the level of delinquencies continued to increase within the PLMBS portfolio. Continued deterioration in the mortgage and credit markets could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges in our legacy PLMBS which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or its capital position. During fiscal 2011, there were no additional private-label mortgage-backed securities identified to have OTTI. At June 30, 2011, the Company had 10 positions in PLMBS with identified accounting impairments. Based on its analysis, the Company has concluded that two PLMBS are other-than-temporarily impaired, as discussed above, while the remaining securities portfolio has experienced unrealized losses and a decreased fair value due to interest rate volatility, illiquidity in the market place or credit deterioration in the U.S. mortgage markets. See Note 6, Unrealized Losses on Securities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if MBS servicers fail to perform their obligations to service mortgage loans as collateral for MBS. MBS servicers have a significant role in servicing the mortgage loans that serve as collateral for the Company’s MBS portfolio, including playing an active role in loss mitigation efforts and making servicer advances. The Company’s credit risk exposure to the servicer counterparties includes the risk that they will not perform their obligation to service these mortgage loans, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results or operations. The risk of such failure has increased as deteriorating market conditions have affected the liquidity and financial condition of some of the larger servicers. These risks could result in losses significantly higher than currently anticipated. 28 Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans and leases. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and operations of us and our subsidiaries in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends to a large extent upon the dividends we receive from West View Savings Bank. Dividends paid by the Savings Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, West View Savings Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Recently, the Savings Bank learned the results of a regulatory examination of the Savings Bank’s asset quality, earnings performance and capital protection. The examination included a review of the Savings Bank’s private label mortgage-backed securities portfolio as a result of the previously reported downgrades of certain private-label CMO’s within the Savings Bank’s investment portfolio by one or more national rating agencies. The Savings Bank previously agreed to take certain actions to monitor and improve related asset quality in relation to regulatory capital. These actions include: additional documentation and monitoring procedures relating to its assessment of other than temporary impairment and market (fair) value estimates, the submission of a capital plan to its regulators, and to seek prior non-objection from its banking regulators for any dividends payable by the Savings Bank to the Company. The Company has made similar commitments to the Federal Reserve. The Company previously announced and reported a reduction of its quarterly cash dividend from $0.16 to $0.04 per share along with the suspension of common stock repurchases under its stock repurchase program. The Company believes that these actions demonstrate its commitment to serve as a source of strength to the Savings Bank and are appropriate in light of today’s economic environment. The Company believes that its liquidity is strong with liquid assets totaling approximately $1.1 million at June 30, 2011. This level of liquidity could support operating expenses and the current dividend for about two years without any dividend income from the Savings Bank. Dividends are subject to declaration by the Board of Directors, which take into account the Company’s financial condition, earnings, statutory and regulatory restrictions, general economic conditions and other factors. There can be no assurance that dividends will in fact be paid on the common stock in future periods or that, if paid, such dividends will not be reduced or eliminated. 29 Holders of our common stock have no preemptive right and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on our future earnings. In May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution. We recorded an expense of approximately $149,000 during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense has increased compared to prior periods. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. We prepaid $1.2 million of our assessments on December 30, 2009, based on our deposits and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009. The prepaid balance will be reduced by the actual expense for our quarterly assessments, until the balance is exhausted. Depending on how our actual assessments compare to the estimated assessments, the prepaid balance may be exhausted earlier than or later than the planned three year time period. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently amended its deposit insurance regulations (1) to change the assessment base for insurance from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity and (2) to lower overall assessment rates. The revised assessment rates are between 2.5 to 9 basis points for banks in the lowest risk category and between 30 to 45 basis points for banks in the highest risk category. The amendments will become effective for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 with the new assessment methodology being reflected in the premium invoices due September 30, 2011. Continued turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in fiscal 2008, United States and global financial markets experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a negative impact on the industry. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have implemented programs intended to improve general economic conditions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury created the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, pursuant to which the Treasury Department provided additional capital to participating financial institutions through the purchase of preferred stock or other securities. Other measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; regulatory action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions to their previous levels and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including WVS, are numerous and include: • worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, • continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, 30 • capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, • limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or • recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other things, the law creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered financial institutions will be reduced. In addition, regulation mandated by the new law could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices which may have a material impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 