Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K, as well as, among other things: • Our perceived value in the securities markets; • Overall trends in the stock market; • Announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one or more of our competitors; • The impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects or on how we are perceived in the securities markets; • Future sales of our common stock or other securities (including any shares issued in connection with our outstanding senior convertible notes or earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition); • Market conditions for providers of products and services such as ours; • Changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • Announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. The number of shares of common stock issuable in a stock offering, the issuance of restricted stock awards or the issuance of shares in connection with certain acquisitions or the conversion of the notes could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may affect the market price for our common stock. We have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 under which, among other things, we may issue up to $300.0 million of securities. We issued $112.1 million of Common Stock in 2012 in reliance upon this registration statement and the remaining $187.9 million of securities covered by it may be issued until June 12, 2015. We may file a new registration statement at any time to increase these available amounts as necessary to provide flexibility to execute our growth strategy. 21 Table of Contents In February 2013, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a three-for-two split of the Company’s common stock in the nature of a 50% stock dividend. On February 22, 2013, each stockholder of record at the close of business on February 15, 2013 received one additional share for every two shares held on the record date. In lieu of fractional shares, shareholders received a cash payment based on the closing market price of our stock on the record date. Trading will begin on a split-adjusted basis on February 25, 2013. Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our issuance of up to a total 120 million shares of common stock, of which 59.5 million shares have been issued or are otherwise currently reserved for issuance. We intend to seek stockholder approval at our 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to amend our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue. Future issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders’ individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. Additionally, subject to the limitations of our Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options, may dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, none of which is currently issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including dividend rights, liquidation preferences and other economic rights, senior to the common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares, possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. 22 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or to carry out any other transaction that may effect a change in our control. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change (as such term is defined in the indenture covering such notes), holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of the notes they hold or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of one thousand dollars. We may also be required to issue additional shares of common stock upon conversion of such notes. Our balance sheet contains several categories of intangible assets totaling $348.7 million at December 31, 2012 that we could be required to write off or write down in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances. Such write-offs or write-downs could adversely impact our future earnings and stock price, our ability to obtain financing and affect our customer relationships. At December 31, 2012, we had $240.3 million in goodwill capitalized on our balance sheet. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other,” requires that goodwill and some long-lived intangibles be tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment at other times as circumstances warrant, and such testing could result in write-downs of some of our goodwill and long-lived intangibles. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over the fair value of the underlying asset. A key factor in determining whether impairment has occurred is the relationship between our market capitalization and our book value. Accordingly, we may, from time to time, incur impairment charges, which are recorded as operating expenses when they are incurred and would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results in the period in which they are incurred. As of December 31, 2012, we had $108.4 million of other intangible assets, net, consisting of licenses, patents, and other intangibles that we amortize over time. Any material impairment to any of these items would result in a non-cash charge and would not impact our cash position or cash flows, but such a charge could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and could affect the trading price of our common stock in the period in which they are incurred. As discussed below, we completed several business acquisitions during 2010, 2011 and 2012. The majority of the acquisitions have resulted in our recording additional goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase price for these businesses reflects a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses, the multiples to earnings, cash flow and other factors, such as prices at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers, the competitive nature of the process by which we acquired the business, and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets.” Changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a U.S. based, multinational company subject to taxation in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that we expect may result from the current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 