ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 1. RISKS RELATED TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS Real property investments are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause declines in the operating revenues and/or the underlying value of one or more of our Properties. A number of factors may decrease the income generated by a retail shopping center property, including: • National, regional and local economic climates, which may be negatively impacted by loss of jobs, production slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, acts of violence, war or terrorism, declines in residential real estate activity and other factors which tend to reduce consumer spending on retail goods. • Local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants. • Increased operating costs, such as increases in repairs and maintenance, real property taxes, utility rates and insurance premiums. • Delays or cost increases associated with the opening of new or renovated properties, due to higher than estimated construction costs, cost overruns, delays in receiving zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals, lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions, and similar factors which may be outside our ability to control. 12 • Perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the shopping center. • The willingness and ability of the shopping center’s owner to provide capable management and maintenance services. • The convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options, such as the Internet. In addition, other factors may adversely affect the value of our Properties without affecting their current revenues, including: • Adverse changes in governmental regulations, such as local zoning and land use laws, environmental regulations or local tax structures that could inhibit our ability to proceed with development, expansion, or renovation activities that otherwise would be beneficial to our Properties. • Potential environmental or other legal liabilities that reduce the amount of funds available to us for investment in our Properties. • Any inability to obtain sufficient financing (including construction financing and permanent debt), or the inability to obtain such financing on commercially favorable terms, to fund repayment of maturing loans, new developments, acquisitions, and property expansions and renovations which otherwise would benefit our Properties. • An environment of rising interest rates, which could negatively impact both the value of commercial real estate such as retail shopping centers and the overall retail climate. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly affect our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our Properties and harm our financial condition. Substantially all of our total consolidated assets consist of investments in real properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to quickly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Before a property can be sold, we may be required to make expenditures to correct defects or to make improvements. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements, and if we cannot do so, we might not be able to sell the property, or might be required to sell the property on unfavorable terms. In acquiring a property, we might agree to provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as limitations on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our Properties could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may elect not to proceed with certain development or expansion projects once they have been undertaken, resulting in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. We intend to pursue development and expansion activities as opportunities arise. In connection with any development or expansion, we will incur various risks, including the risk that development or expansion opportunities explored by us may be abandoned for various reasons including, but not limited to, credit disruptions that require the Company to conserve its cash until the capital markets stabilize or alternative credit 13 or funding arrangements can be made. Developments or expansions also include the risk that construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable. Other risks include the risk that we may not be able to refinance construction loans which are generally with full recourse to us, the risk that occupancy rates and rents at a completed project will not meet projections and will be insufficient to make the project profitable, and the risk that we will not be able to obtain anchor, mortgage lender and property partner approvals for certain expansion activities. When we elect not to proceed with a development opportunity, the development costs ordinarily are charged against income for the then-current period. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. Certain of our Properties are subject to ownership interests held by third parties, whose interests may conflict with ours and thereby constrain us from taking actions concerning these properties which otherwise would be in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. We own partial interests in 24 malls, eleven associated centers, six community centers and eight office buildings. We manage all but four of these properties. Governor’s Square, Governor’s Plaza, Kentucky Oaks and Plaza Macaé are all owned by joint ventures and are managed by either a third party managing general partner or a property manager that is affiliated with the third party managing general partner (the “managing partners”). The managing partners perform the property management and leasing services for these four Properties and receive fees for their services. The managing partners of the Properties control the cash flow distributions, although our approval is required for certain major decisions. Where we serve as managing general partner of the partnerships that own our Properties, we may have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the other partners in those partnerships. In certain cases, the approval or consent of the other partners is required before we may sell, finance, expand or make other significant changes in the operations of such Properties. To the extent such approvals or consents are required, we may experience difficulty in, or may be prevented from, implementing our plans with respect to expansion, development, financing or other similar transactions with respect to such Properties. With respect to those Properties for which we do not serve as managing general partner, we do not have day-to-day operational control or control over certain major decisions, including leasing and the timing and amount of distributions, which could result in decisions by the managing partners that do not fully reflect our interests. This includes decisions relating to the requirements that we must satisfy in order to maintain our status as a REIT for tax purposes. However, decisions relating to sales, expansion and disposition of all or substantially all of the assets and financings are subject to approval by the Operating Partnership. We may incur significant costs related to compliance with environmental laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and the funds available to us to pay dividends. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of petroleum, certain hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such real estate. Such laws typically impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. The costs of remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or the failure to promptly remove or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to lease or sell such real estate or to borrow using such real estate as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain laws also impose requirements on conditions and activities that may affect the environment or the impact of the environment on human health. Failure to comply with such requirements could result in the imposition of monetary penalties (in addition to the costs to achieve compliance) and potential liabilities to third parties. Among other things, certain laws require abatement or removal of friable and certain non-friable 14 asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling. Certain laws regarding asbestos-containing materials require building owners and lessees, among other things, to notify and train certain employees working in areas known or presumed to contain asbestos-containing materials. Certain laws also impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with asbestos-containing materials. In connection with the ownership and operation of properties, we may be potentially liable for all or a portion of such costs or claims. All of our Properties (but not properties for which we hold an option to purchase but do not yet own) have been subject to Phase I environmental assessments or updates of existing Phase I environmental assessments. Such assessments generally consisted of a visual inspection of the Properties, review of federal and state environmental databases and certain information regarding historic uses of the property and adjacent areas and the preparation and issuance of written reports. Some of the Properties contain, or contained, underground storage tanks used for storing petroleum products or wastes typically associated with automobile service or other operations conducted at the Properties. Certain Properties contain, or contained, dry-cleaning establishments utilizing solvents. Where believed to be warranted, samplings of building materials or subsurface investigations were undertaken. At certain Properties, where warranted by the conditions, we have developed and implemented an operations and maintenance program that establishes operating procedures with respect to asbestos-containing materials. The cost associated with the development and implementation of such programs was not material. We have also obtained environmental insurance coverage at certain of our Properties. We believe that our Properties are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local ordinances and regulations regarding the handling, discharge and emission of hazardous or toxic substances. We have recorded in our financial statements a liability of $2.6 million related to potential future asbestos abatement activities at our Properties which are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with any of our present or former Properties. Therefore, we have not recorded any liability related to hazardous or toxic substances. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments available to us do not reveal all potential environmental liabilities. It is also possible that subsequent investigations will identify material contamination, that adverse environmental conditions have arisen subsequent to the performance of the environmental assessments, or that there are material environmental liabilities of which management is unaware. Moreover, no assurances can be given that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the current environmental condition of the Properties has not been or will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the Properties, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of the Properties or by third parties unrelated to us, the Operating Partnership or the relevant Property’s partnership. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, and other acts of violence, including terrorism or war, might result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the values of our Properties, and might adversely affect an investment in our securities. A decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our Properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities also could directly affect the value of our Properties through damage, destruction or loss. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK The current decline in economic conditions, including increased volatility in the capital and credit markets, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States is in the midst of an economic recession with the capital and credit markets experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. The current economic environment has been affected by dramatic declines in the stock and housing markets, increases in foreclosures, unemployment and costs of living, as well as limited access to credit. This deteriorating economic situation has impacted and is expected to continue to impact consumer spending levels, which can result in decreased revenues for our tenants and related decreases in the values of our Properties. A sustained economic downward trend could impact our tenants’ ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity, bankruptcy or other reasons. Our ability to lease space and negotiate rents at advantageous rates could also be affected in this type of economic environment. Additionally, if current levels of market volatility continue to worsen, access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted over a more extended period, which may make it difficult to obtain the financing we may need for future growth and/or to meet our debt service obligations as they mature. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition from other retail formats could adversely affect the revenues generated by our Properties, resulting in a reduction in funds available for distribution to our stockholders. There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our Properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at our Properties face competition for customers from: • Discount shopping centers • Outlet malls • Wholesale clubs • Direct mail • Telemarketing • Television shopping networks • Shopping via the Internet Each of these competitive factors could adversely affect the amount of rents and tenant reimbursements that we are able to collect from our tenants, thereby reducing our revenues and the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Increased operating expenses and decreased occupancy rates may not allow us to recover the majority of our common area maintenance (CAM) and other operating expenses from our tenants, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and funds available for future distributions. Energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas of our Properties, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs and security costs are typically allocable to our Properties’ tenants. Our lease agreements typically provide that the tenant is liable for a portion of the CAM and other operating expenses. While historically our lease agreements provided for variable CAM provisions, the majority of our current leases require an equal periodic tenant reimbursement amount for our cost recoveries which serves to fix our tenants’ CAM contributions to us. In these cases, a tenant will pay a single specified rent amount, or a set expense reimbursement amount, subject to annual increases, regardless of the actual amount of operating expenses. The tenant’s payment remains the same even if operating expenses increase, causing us to be responsible for the excess amount. As a result, the CAM and tenant reimbursements that we receive may not allow us to recover a substantial portion of these operating costs. 16 Additionally, in the event that our Properties are not fully occupied, we would be required to pay the portion of any operating, redevelopment or renovation expenses allocable to the vacant space(s) that would otherwise typically be paid by the residing tenant(s). The loss of one or more significant tenants, due to bankruptcies or as a result of ongoing consolidations in the retail industry, could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of our Properties. Regional malls are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other significant tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by an anchor tenant or other significant tenant to cease operations at one or more Properties could have a material adverse effect on those Properties and, by extension, on our financial condition and results of operations. The closing of an anchor or other significant tenant may allow other anchors and/or tenants at an affected Property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the Property. In addition, key tenants at one or more Properties might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The bankruptcy and/or closure of one or more significant tenants, if we are not able to successfully re-tenant the affected space, could have a material adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the Properties involved, reducing the likelihood that, if decided, we would be able to sell the Properties, or we may be required to incur redevelopment costs in order to successfully obtain new anchors or other significant tenants when such vacancies exist. Our Properties may be subject to impairment charges which can adversely affect our financial results. We periodically evaluate long-lived assets to determine if there has been any impairment in their carrying values and record impairment losses if the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their carrying amounts or if there are other indicators of impairment. If it is determined that an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment charge is equal to the excess of the asset’s carrying value over its estimated fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made. Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by each property are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including, but not limited to, demand for space, competition for tenants, changes in market rental rates and costs to operate each property. As these factors are difficult to predict and are subject to future events that may alter our assumptions, the future cash flows estimated in our impairment analyses may not be achieved. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgage and debt interest and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. Deflation can result in a decline in general price levels, often caused by a decrease in the supply of money or credit. The predominant effects of deflation are high unemployment, credit contraction and weakened consumer demand. Restricted lending practices could impact our ability to obtain financings or refinancings for our properties and our tenants’ ability to obtain credit. Decreases in consumer demand can have a direct impact on our tenants and the rents we receive. 17 Certain agreements with prior owners of Properties that we have acquired may inhibit our ability to enter into future sale or refinancing transactions affecting such Properties, which otherwise would be in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. Certain Properties that we originally acquired from third parties had unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value of such Properties and the third parties’ adjusted tax basis in the Properties immediately prior to their contribution of such Properties to the Operating Partnership pursuant to our acquisition. For this reason, a taxable sale by us of any of such Properties, or a significant reduction in the debt encumbering such Properties, could result in adverse tax consequences to the third parties who contributed these Properties in exchange for interests in the Operating Partnership. Under the terms of these transactions, we have generally agreed that we either will not sell or refinance such an acquired Property for a number of years in any transaction that would trigger adverse tax consequences for the parties from whom we acquired such Property, or else we will reimburse such parties for all or a portion of the additional taxes they are required to pay as a result of the transaction. Accordingly, these agreements may cause us not to engage in future sale or refinancing transactions affecting such Properties which otherwise would be in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, or may increase the costs to us of engaging in such transactions. Uninsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition, and in the future our insurance may not include coverage for acts of terrorism. We carry a comprehensive blanket policy for general liability, property casualty (including fire, earthquake and flood) and rental loss covering all of the Properties, with specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, even insured losses could result in a serious disruption to our business and delay our receipt of revenue. Furthermore, there are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, as well as some types of environmental losses, that generally are not insured or are not economically insurable. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a Property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the Property. If this happens, we, or the applicable Property’s partnership, may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property. The general liability and property casualty insurance policies on our Properties currently include coverage for loss resulting from acts of terrorism, whether foreign or domestic. While we believe that the Properties are adequately insured in accordance with industry standards, the cost of general liability and property casualty insurance policies that include coverage for acts of terrorism has risen significantly subsequent to September 11, 2001. The cost of coverage for acts of terrorism is currently mitigated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (“TRIA”). If TRIA is not extended beyond its current expiration date of December 31, 2014, we may incur higher insurance costs and greater difficulty in obtaining insurance that covers terrorist-related damages. Our tenants may also experience similar difficulties. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of corporate dividends may make our stock less attractive to investors, thereby lowering our stock price. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends received by individual taxpayers has been reduced generally from 38.6% to 15.0% (currently effective from January 1, 2003 through 2010). However, dividends payable by REITs are generally not eligible for such treatment. Although this legislation did not have a directly adverse effect on the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable treatment for non-REIT dividends could cause individual investors to consider investments in non-REIT corporations as more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT, which could have an adverse impact on the market price of our stock. 18 RISKS RELATED TO DEBT AND FINANCIAL MARKETS The deterioration of the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access funds and the capital needed to refinance debt or obtain new debt. We are significantly dependent upon external financing to fund the growth of our business and ensure that we meet our debt servicing requirements. Our access to financing depends on the willingness of lending institutions to grant credit to us and conditions in the capital markets in general. The United States is in the midst of an economic recession with the capital and credit markets experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. If current levels of market volatility continue to worsen, access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted over an extended period of time, which may make it difficult to obtain the financing we may need for future growth and/or to meet our debt service obligations as they mature. As of December 31, 2008, our total share of consolidated and unconsolidated debt maturing in 2009 and 2010, as though all extension options available have been exercised, is $354.5 million and $1.0 billion, respectively. Although we have successfully obtained debt for refinancings of our maturing debt, acquisitions and the construction of new developments in the past, we cannot make any assurances as to whether we will be able to obtain debt in the future, or that the financing options available to us will be on favorable or acceptable terms. We rely upon our largest secured and unsecured credit facilities as sources of funding for numerous transactions. Our access to these funds is dependent upon the ability of each of the participants to the credit facilities to meet their funding commitments. Given the tightening of the credit markets, the massive losses suffered recently by many financial institutions, steep declines in the stock markets and the need for government intervention through “bail-out” procedures, many financial institutions simply do not have the available capital to meet their previous commitments. The failure of one or more significant participants to our credit facilities to meet their funding commitments could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a substantial amount of debt that could adversely impact our future operations. Our total share of consolidated and unconsolidated debt as of December 31, 2008 was $6.6 billion. As a result of this substantial amount of indebtedness, we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing. We are required to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which limits the amount of cash flow available for other business uses. In addition, our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required debt service levels in the event that we experience reductions in income or cash flows at our Properties contributed by, but not limited to, an economic recession, high unemployment levels, increased tenant bankruptcies, lack of consumer confidence, losses of major tenants or the entry of new competitors. The occurrence of these or similar factors may adversely affect our financial positions and results of operations. Many of our Properties are mortgaged to secure payments of indebtedness, and if income from the Properties is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the Properties could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagees resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders, and decrease our stock price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments. An environment of rising interest rates could lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. One of the factors that may influence the price of our stock in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments. Numerous other factors, such as governmental regulatory action and tax laws, could have a significant impact on the future market price of our stock. In addition, increases in market interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs for us, which may adversely affect our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders. 19 Certain of our credit facilities, the loss of which could have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, are conditioned upon the Operating Partnership continuing to be managed by certain members of its current senior management and by such members of senior management continuing to own a significant direct or indirect equity interest in the Operating Partnership. Certain of the Operating Partnership’s lines of credit are conditioned upon the Operating Partnership continuing to be managed by certain members of its current senior management and by such members of senior management continuing to own a significant direct or indirect equity interest in the Operating Partnership (including any shares of our common stock owned by such members of senior management). If the failure of one or more of these conditions resulted in the loss of these credit facilities and we were unable to obtain suitable replacement financing, such loss could have a material, adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATIONS Since our Properties are located principally in the Southeastern and Midwestern United States, our financial position, results of operations and funds available for distribution to shareholders are subject generally to economic conditions in these regions. Our Properties are located principally in the southeastern and midwestern United States. Our Properties located in the southeastern United States accounted for approximately 52.0% of our total revenues from all Properties for the year ended December 31, 2008 and currently include 43 malls, 20 associated centers, 6 community centers and 18 office buildings. Our Properties located in the midwestern United States accounted for approximately 30.5% of our total revenues from all Properties for the year ended December 31, 2008 and currently include 27 malls and 4 associated centers. Our results of operations and funds available for distribution to shareholders therefore will be subject generally to economic conditions in the southeastern and midwestern United States. We will continue to look for opportunities to geographically diversify our portfolio in order to minimize dependency on any particular region; however, the expansion of the portfolio through both acquisitions and developments is contingent on many factors including consumer demand, competition and economic conditions. Our financial position, results of operations and funds available for distribution to shareholders could be adversely affected by any economic downturn affecting the operating results at our Properties in the St. Louis, MO, Nashville, TN, Greensboro, NC, Kansas City (Overland Park), KS, and Chattanooga, TN metropolitan areas, which are our five largest markets. Our Properties located in the St. Louis, MO, Nashville, TN, Greensboro, NC, Kansas City (Overland Park), KS, and Chattanooga, TN metropolitan areas accounted for approximately 8.9%, 4.2%, 3.3%, 3.0% and 2.6%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively. No other market accounted for more than 2.6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our financial position and results of operations will therefore be affected by the results experienced at Properties located in these metropolitan areas. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS We have ownership interests in certain property investments and joint ventures outside the United States that present numerous risks that differ from those of our domestic investments. We hold ownership interests in joint ventures and properties in Brazil and China, respectively, that are currently immaterial to our consolidated financial position. International development and ownership activities yield additional risks that differ from those related to our domestic properties and operations. These additional risks include, but are not limited to: 20 • Impact of adverse changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies; • Difficulties in the repatriation of cash and earnings; • Differences in managerial styles and customs; • Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; • Changes in foreign political, legal and economic environments; and • Differences in lending practices. Our international activities are currently limited in their scope. However, should our investments in international joint ventures and property investments grow, these additional risks could increase in significance and adversely affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO DIVIDENDS Our ability to pay dividends on our stock may be limited. In the event that we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we will be required to repay such debt or pay higher debt service costs in connection with, most likely, less attractive financing terms. In order to obtain the necessary cash for such payments, we may be compelled to take a number of actions, including the reduction of dividends to an amount equal to the minimum amount that is required to maintain our qualification as a REIT or paying dividends through the issuance of a combination of our common stock and cash. RISKS RELATED TO FEDERAL INCOME TAX LAWS We conduct a portion of our business through taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are subject to certain tax risks. We have established several taxable REIT subsidiaries including our management company. Despite our qualification as a REIT, our taxable REIT subsidiaries must pay income tax on their taxable income. In addition, we must comply with various tests to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and our income from and investments in our taxable REIT subsidiaries generally do not constitute permissible income and investments for these tests. While we will attempt to ensure that our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely affect our REIT qualification, we cannot provide assurance that we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or our taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our funds available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Although we believe that we are organized and operate in such a manner, no assurance can be given that we currently qualify and in the future will continue to qualify as a REIT. Such qualification involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification or its corresponding federal income tax consequences. Any such change could have a retroactive effect. If in any taxable year we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we also 21 would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. As a result, the funds available for distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. We currently intend to operate in a manner designed to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors, with the consent of a majority of our stockholders, to revoke the REIT election. Any issuance or transfer of our capital stock to any person in excess of the applicable limits on ownership necessary to maintain our status as a REIT would be deemed void ab initio, and those shares would automatically be transferred to a non-affiliated charitable trust. To maintain our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. Our certificate of incorporation generally prohibits ownership of more than 6% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock by any single stockholder determined by vote, value or number of shares (other than Charles Lebovitz, our Chief Executive Officer, David Jacobs, Richard Jacobs and their affiliates under the Internal Revenue Code’s attribution rules). The affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of our outstanding voting stock is required to amend this provision. Our board of directors may, subject to certain conditions, waive the applicable ownership limit upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS or an opinion of counsel to the effect that such ownership will not jeopardize our status as a REIT. Absent any such waiver, however, any issuance or transfer of our capital stock to any person in excess of the applicable ownership limit or any issuance or transfer of shares of such stock which would cause us to be beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons, will be null and void and the intended transferee will acquire no rights to the stock. Instead, such issuance or transfer with respect to that number of shares that would be owned by the transferee in excess of the ownership limit provision would be deemed void ab initio and those shares would automatically be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a charitable beneficiary to be designated by us, with a trustee designated by us, but who would not be affiliated with us or with the prohibited owner. Any acquisition of our capital stock and continued holding or ownership of our capital stock constitutes, under our certificate of incorporation, a continuous representation of compliance with the applicable ownership limit. In order to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid the imposition of certain additional taxes under the Internal Revenue Code, we must satisfy minimum requirements for distributions to shareholders, which may limit the amount of cash we might otherwise have been able to retain for use in growing our business. To maintain our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we generally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income after certain adjustments. However, to the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90% but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at ordinary and capital gains corporate tax rates, as the case may be. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us during each calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for such calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year and any amount of such income that was not distributed in prior years. In the case of property acquisitions, including our initial formation, where individual Properties are contributed to our Operating Partnership for Operating Partnership units, we have assumed the tax basis and depreciation schedules of the entities’ contributing Properties. The relatively low tax basis of such contributed Properties may have the effect of increasing the cash amounts we are required to distribute as dividends, thereby potentially limiting the amount of cash we might otherwise have been able to retain for use in growing our business. This low tax basis may also have the effect of reducing or eliminating the portion of distributions made by us that are treated as a non-taxable return of capital. 22 RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE The ownership limit described above, as well as certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan, and certain provisions of Delaware law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. There are certain provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and other agreements to which we are a party that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These provisions may also inhibit a change in control that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interest or that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares. These provisions and agreements are summarized as follows: • The Ownership Limit – As described above, to maintain our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. Our certificate of incorporation generally prohibits ownership of more than 6% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock by any single stockholder determined by value (other than Charles Lebovitz, David Jacobs, Richard Jacobs and their affiliates under the Internal Revenue Code’s attribution rules). In addition to preserving our status as a REIT, the ownership limit may have the effect of precluding an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. • Classified Board of Directors; Removal for Cause – Our certificate of incorporation provides for a board of directors divided into three classes, with one class elected each year to serve for a three-year term. As a result, at least two annual meetings of stockholders may be required for the stockholders to change a majority of our board of directors. In addition, our stockholders can only remove directors for cause and only by a vote of 75% of the outstanding voting stock. Collectively, these provisions make it more difficult to change the composition of our board of directors and may have the effect of encouraging persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. • Advance Notice Requirements for Stockholder Proposals – Our bylaws establish advance notice procedures with regard to stockholder proposals relating to the nomination of candidates for election as directors or new business to be brought before meetings of our stockholders. These procedures generally require advance written notice of any such proposals, containing prescribed information, to be given to our Secretary at our principal executive offices not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the meeting. • Vote Required to Amend Bylaws – A vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock is necessary to amend our bylaws. • Stockholder Rights Plan – We have a stockholder rights plan, which may delay, deter or prevent a change in control unless the acquirer negotiates with our board of directors and the board of directors approves the transaction. The rights plan generally would be triggered if an entity, group or person acquires (or announces a plan to acquire) 15% or more of our common stock. If such transaction is not approved by our board of directors, the effect of the stockholder rights plan would be to allow our stockholders to purchase shares of our common stock, or the common stock or other merger consideration paid by the acquiring entity, at an effective 50% discount. • Delaware Anti-Takeover Statute – We are a Delaware corporation and are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prevents an “interested stockholder” 23 (defined generally as a person owning 15% or more of a company’s outstanding voting stock) from engaging in a “business combination” (as defined in Section 203) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless: (a) before that person became an interested holder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested holder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination; (b) upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owns 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced (excluding stock held by directors who are also officers and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer); or (c) following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. Under Section 203, these restrictions also do not apply to certain business combinations proposed by an interested stockholder following the announcement or notification of certain extraordinary transactions involving us and a person who was not an interested stockholder during the previous three years or who became an interested stockholder with the approval of a majority of our directors, if that extraordinary transaction is approved or not opposed by a majority of the directors who were directors before any person became an interested stockholder in the previous three years or who were recommended for election or elected to succeed such directors by a majority of directors then in office. Certain ownership interests held by members of our senior management may tend to create conflicts of interest between such individuals and the interests of the Company and our Operating Partnership. • Tax Consequences of the Sale or Refinancing of Certain Properties – Since certain of our Properties had unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in such Properties immediately prior to their contribution to the Operating Partnership, a taxable sale of any such Properties, or a significant reduction in the debt encumbering such Properties, could cause adverse tax consequences to the members of our senior management who owned interests in our predecessor entities. As a result, members of our senior management might not favor a sale of a property or a significant reduction in debt even though such a sale or reduction could be beneficial to us and the Operating Partnership. Our bylaws provide that any decision relating to the potential sale of any property that would result in a disproportionately higher taxable income for members of our senior management than for us and our stockholders, or that would result in a significant reduction in such property’s debt, must be made by a majority of the independent directors of the board of directors. The Operating Partnership is required, in the case of such a sale, to distribute to its partners, at a minimum, all of the net cash proceeds from such sale up to an amount reasonably believed necessary to enable members of our senior management to pay any income tax liability arising from such sale. • Interests in Other Entities; Policies of the Board of Directors – Certain entities owned in whole or in part by members of our senior management, including the construction company that built or renovated most of our properties, may continue to perform services for, or transact business with, us and the Operating Partnership. Furthermore, certain property tenants are affiliated with members of our senior management. Accordingly, although our bylaws provide that any contract or transaction between us or the Operating Partnership and one or more of our directors or officers, or between us or the Operating Partnership and any other entity in which one or more of our directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, must be approved by our disinterested directors or stockholders 24 after the material facts of the relationship or interest of the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to them, these affiliations could nevertheless create conflicts between the interests of these members of senior management and the interests of the Company, our shareholders and the Operating Partnership in relation to any transactions between us and any of these entities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 