Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below as well as other statements made in this Form 10-K that may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to the statements set forth below that explicitly describe risks and uncertainties to which our business and our financial condition and results of operations are subject, readers are urged to consider statements in future or conditional tenses or that include terms such as “believes,” “belief,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” that appear in this Form 10-K to be uncertain and forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may include comments as to our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business. Forward-looking statements are based upon our beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available to us, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. The factors stated under the heading “Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors” set forth below, as well as other factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected or predicted in forward-looking statements. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those reflected in or suggested by forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement that you read in this Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this Form 10-K, which would cause actual results to differ from those referred to in forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material also may impair our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. If any of the risks described below or if any other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements that are intended to provide our current expectations with regards to those risks. There can be no assurance that our current expectations will 10 Table of Contents be met, and our actual results may differ substantially from the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements. If we were unable to generate net cash flow from operations or if we were unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition could be adversely affected. In 2009 our unrestricted cash and short-term investments increased by $2.7 million to $24.9 million at December 31, 2009 from $22.2 million at December 31, 2008. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, net cash provided by (used in) operations was $7.7 million, ($3.5) million and $2.6 million, respectively. We cannot assure you that we would generate cash from operations or other potential sources to fund future working capital needs and meet capital expenditure requirements. In early 2009 we repaid the remainder of our outstanding industrial development bonds following the 2008 sale of our Grand Junction facility. From time-to-time we may seek access to external sources of capital to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. However, we cannot assure you that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or equity financings or other potential sources to fund future operating costs, debt-service obligations and capital requirements. As a result of the recessionary economic conditions that have persisted since 2008, credit markets have tightened significantly such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. In addition, several large financial institutions worldwide have either failed or been dependent upon government assistance to continue to operate as going concerns. If our ability to generate cash flow from operations and our existing cash is inadequate to meet our needs, our options for addressing such capital constraints include, but are not limited to, (i) obtaining a revolving credit facility from bank lenders, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital it is likely that such alternatives in the current market environment would be on less favorable terms than we have historically obtained, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or enter into other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. The direction and relative strength of the global economy remains uncertain due to softness in the real estate and mortgage markets, among others, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain, and may cause customers to further delay or reduce technology purchases. These and other macroeconomic factors had an adverse impact on the sales of our products in 2008 and 2009, leading to longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. The global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets have resulted in a tightening of credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. These conditions have made it more difficult to obtain financing. 11 Table of Contents Given the continued weakness in the global economy, we face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, resellers or customers, including: • The risk that customers or resellers to whom we sell our products and services may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment of accounts receivable that those customers or resellers may owe; • The risk that key suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in the products that we sell may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of systems, materials or spare parts to our customers; and • The inability of customers, including resellers, suppliers and contract manufacturers to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products and raw materials used to build those products. We have managed through these uncertainties by reducing costs and by the continued introduction of new products and services, but there is no assurance these steps will be sufficient. We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that may involve significant risks and uncertainties. We completed three acquisitions in 2009, which were not considered significant in accordance with rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X. We intend to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities in the future in an effort to expand our business and enhance stockholder value. Acquisitions involve certain risks and uncertainties including: • Difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration may be encountered; • The challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits; • The risk that our marketplaces do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in the marketplaces that we serve; • The risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying party; • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and • The risk of diverting management attention from our existing operations. Our future success may depend on our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs. Our business may be affected by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our existing products and proprietary technology and systems obsolete. For that reason, we maintain an ongoing research and development program that is designed to improve our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that enable us to maintain our technological leadership. We believe that to remain competitive we must continually enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to: • Develop or obtain leading technologies useful in our business; • Enhance our existing products; • Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers, particularly in the area of materials functionality; 12 Table of Contents • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; or • Recruit and retain key technology employees. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasing our costs of doing business. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third-party intellectual property claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from business conducted outside the U.S and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S. More than 50% of our consolidated revenue is derived from customers in countries outside the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of our operations outside the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, they could be adversely affected by: • Unexpected changes in laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • Changes in regulatory requirements, including export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions and antitrust and data privacy concerns; • Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe; • Limited protection for the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights in some countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Taxation; and • Other factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. These uncertainties may make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities and may lead our customers in certain countries to delay purchases of our products and services. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in global financial markets and economies. 13 Table of Contents The consequences of terrorism or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. While the geographic areas outside the U.S. in which we operate are generally not considered to be highly inflationary, our foreign operations are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates arising from, among other things, certain intercompany transactions that are generally denominated, for example, in U.S. dollars rather than their respective functional currencies. Our operating results, assets and liabilities are subject to the effect of foreign currency translation when the operating results and the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. The assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars based on the translation rate in effect at the end of the related reporting period. The operating results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars based on the average conversion rate for the related period. Moreover, our operations are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when we consider it to be appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We face significant competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our revenue and gross profit margins to decline. Competition could also cause us to reduce sales prices or to incur additional marketing or production costs, which could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and reduced margins. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of equipment for models, prototypes, other three-dimensional objects and end-use parts as well as producers of materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of competitive equipment, materials and services. Many of these competitors have financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment and materials that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products, and from improvements to existing materials and equipment technologies. We intend to follow a strategy of continuing product development to enhance our position to the extent practicable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position in the field or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products, we may lose revenue and demand for our products. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components and sub-assemblies used in our systems and raw materials used in our materials. If these relationships were to terminate, our business could be disrupted while we locate an alternative supplier and our expenses may increase. We have outsourced the assembly of certain of our systems to third-party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our systems from third-party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our materials, as well as certain of those materials, from third-party suppliers. While there are several potential suppliers of the components, parts and sub-assemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components, including our lasers, materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of vendors involves many risks including: • Potential shortages of some key components; • Product performance shortfalls; and 14 Table of Contents • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capabilities, quality and costs. While we believe that we can obtain all of the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become “qualified” pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying durations. We generally have our systems assembled based on our internal forecasts and the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties, which are subject to various lead times. In addition, at any time, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use. Any unanticipated change in the sources of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble certain of our equipment, including our SLA®, SLS® and certain 3-D printing systems. In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including: • The risk that the parties that we identify and retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; • The risk of disruption in the supply of systems to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of systems that are needed to meet then current customer demand; and • The risk of insolvency of these suppliers as well as the risk that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. Costs of certain employee benefits may continue to rise. Although we have taken steps to contain volatility in medical and employee benefits, there are risks that these benefit costs may increase as a result of: • Continued increases in medical costs related to an aging workforce, increased employee usage of medical benefits or medical inflation; and • Material changes in legislation impacting medical or employee benefits. We face risks in connection with changes in energy-related expenses. We and our suppliers depend on various energy products in manufacturing processes used to produce our products. Generally, we acquire products at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge energy prices. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in energy prices. In addition, many of the customers and industries to whom we market our systems and materials are directly or indirectly dependent upon the cost and availability of energy resources. Our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our or our customers’ energy-related expenses increase, both as a result of higher costs of producing, and potentially lower profit margins in selling, our products and materials and because increased energy costs may cause our customers to delay or reduce purchases of our systems and materials. The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or net loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product offerings, including our systems, materials and services, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit 15 Table of Contents margin depending upon the variety of product shipments from quarter to quarter. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the variety of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. In some quarters, it is possible that results could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or decline. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed and used by customers. This could result in delayed market acceptance of the product, claims from customers or others, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer, their effect is subject to a variety of legal limitations, and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. Historically, our common stock has been characterized by generally low daily trading volume, and our common stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock ranged from $3.76 to $11.92 per share during 2009. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: • Our perceived value in the securities markets; • Future announcements concerning developments affecting our business or those of other companies in our industry, including the receipt or loss of substantial orders for products; • Overall trends in the stock market; • The impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects on how we are perceived in the securities markets; • Changes in recommendations of securities analysts; and • Sales or purchases of substantial blocks of stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options could dilute your ownership and negatively impact the market price for our common stock. Approximately 0.9 million shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2009, all of which were fully vested and remained exercisable at that date. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, of which 1 million shares have been authorized as Series A Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including dividend rights, liquidation preferences and other economic rights, senior to the common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. The stockholders’ rights plan adopted by the Board of Directors in 2008 may inhibit takeovers and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors approved the creation of our Series A Preferred Stock and adopted a stockholders’ rights plan pursuant to which it declared a dividend of one Series A Preferred Stock purchase right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 22, 2008. The preferred share purchase rights attach to any additional shares of common stock issued after December 22, 2008. Presently these rights are not exercisable and trade with the shares of our common stock. Under the rights plan, these rights generally become exercisable only if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for 15 percent or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, each right permits its holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock for the exercise price of $55.00 per right. The rights plan also contains customary “flip-in” and “flip-over” provisions such that if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our common stock, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of our common stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $55.00 per right by one-half of the then current market price of our common stock. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we are later acquired in a merger or similar transaction, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of the acquiring corporation’s stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $55.00 per right by one-half of the then current market price of the acquiring company’s common stock, based on the market price of the acquiring corporation’s stock prior to such merger. The stockholders’ rights plan and the associated Series A Preferred Stock purchase rights may discourage a hostile takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock. Various provisions of Delaware law may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Our balance sheet contains several categories of intangible assets totaling $52.3 million at December 31, 2009 that we could be required to write off or write down in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances. Such write-offs or write-downs could adversely impact our future earnings and stock price, our ability to obtain financing and our customer relationships. At December 31, 2009, we had $48.7 million in goodwill capitalized on our balance sheet. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Section 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other,” requires that goodwill and some long-lived intangibles be tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment at other times as circumstances warrant, and such testing could result in write-downs of some of our goodwill and long-lived intangibles. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over the fair value of the underlying asset. A key factor in determining whether impairment has occurred is the relationship between our market capitalization and our book value. Accordingly, we may, from time to time, incur impairment charges, which are recorded as operating expenses when they are incurred and would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results in the period in which they are incurred. 17 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had $3.6 million of other net intangible assets, consisting of licenses, patents, and other intangibles that we amortize over time. Any material impairment to any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations and could affect the trading price of our common stock in the period in which they are incurred. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates — Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 