RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company Our business depends on our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company, and changes in this relationship may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Approximately 98% of our sales volume in 2008 was derived from sales of Coca-Cola trademark beverages. In each of our territories, we produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola trademark beverages through standard bottler agreements. Through its rights under the bottler agreements and as a large shareholder, The Coca-Cola Company has the ability to exercise substantial influence over the conduct of our business. Under our bottler agreements, The Coca-Cola Company may unilaterally set the price for its concentrate. In 2005, The Coca-Cola Company decided to gradually increase concentrate prices for sparkling beverages over a three-year period in Brazil beginning in 2006 and in Mexico beginning in 2007. These increases have now been fully implemented in Brazil and will be fully implemented in Mexico during 2009. We prepare a three-year general business plan that is submitted to our board of directors for approval. The Coca-Cola Company may require that we demonstrate our financial ability to meet our plans and may terminate our rights to produce, market and distribute sparkling beverages in territories with respect to which such approval is withheld. The Coca-Cola Company also makes significant contributions to our marketing expenses although it is not required to contribute a particular amount. In addition, we are prohibited from bottling any sparkling beverage product or distributing other beverages without The Coca-Cola Company’s authorization or consent. We may not transfer control of the bottler rights of any of our territories without the consent of The Coca-Cola Company. We depend on The Coca-Cola Company to renew our bottler agreements. Our bottler agreements for Mexico expire in 2013 for two territories and 2015 for two other territories, renewable in each case for ten-year terms. Our bottler agreements for Guatemala, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama (other beverages), Venezuela and Colombia expire on July 31, 2009, pursuant to letters of extension. These bottler agreements are renewable as agreed between the parties. Our bottler agreement for Coca-Cola trademark beverages for Panama has an indefinite term but may be terminated with six months prior written notice by either party. Our bottler agreement for Argentina expires in 2014. Our bottler agreement for Brazil expired in December 2004. We are operating under the terms of the existing Brazilian bottler agreement in the acquired territory of Refrigerantes Minas Gerais Ltda., or REMIL. For the expired agreements and the agreements expiring this year, we are currently in the process of negotiating renewals of our agreements on similar terms and conditions as the rest of the countries, and we and The Coca-Cola Company will continue operating under the terms of the existing agreements. See “