Item 1A. Risk Factors (References to “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion refer to the Company.) In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Related to Our Operating Performance and Our Industry We have incurred significant losses in recent years, and if our losses continue, and we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, our stock price will likely suffer. Including the results of operations of the Company’s former CCI business, we have had net losses totaling $24.3 million, $19.8 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Continued losses could reduce our liquidity and cause us to reduce our expenditures on capital improvements, machinery and equipment and research and development. This could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain production schedules, manufacture products of high quality and develop and manufacture new products that will achieve market acceptance. This could in turn, have a negative impact on sales and earnings. If we continue to suffer losses, we could be unable to implement our business and financial strategies or meet our obligations when due. Our failure to achieve and sustain our profitability will negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our net sales, gross margin and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to factors such as the mix of products sold, the level of discounting employed on our products, the ability to utilize or expand manufacturing resources efficiently, material shortages, the introduction and consumer acceptance of new models offered by our competition, warranty expense, the addition or loss of dealers, the timing of trade shows and rallies and factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry as a whole, such as cyclicality and seasonality. In addition, our overall gross margin will be affected by shifts in the type of models sold. The RV industry has been characteristically cyclical and seasonal, which can have a negative effect on our operating results and our stock price. The RV industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Declines in consumer confidence driven by concerns about the availability and price of gasoline, inflation, increases in interest rates, reductions in available financing, and political uncertainty have had, and may in the future have, an adverse impact on RV sales. Seasonal factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for our products. Demand in the RV industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. We cannot assure that the factors currently adversely affecting our business will not continue, or have an adverse effect beyond their present scope. We depend on certain dealers and concentration of dealers in certain regions. For the year ended December 31, 2006, three NRV dealers accounted for 17%, 11% and 6% of the annual net sales. Also, their top ten dealers accounted for approximately 58%, 58% and 70% of our annual net sales during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The loss of one or more of these dealers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our sales is from dealers located in states in the western part of the United States. Consequently, a general downturn in economic conditions or other material events in the western region could materially adversely affect our sales. 9 Reduced availability of financing for our dealers or retail customers could adversely affect revenues and margins. Our RV dealers, as well as retail buyers of RV products, generally secure financing from third party lenders. Any reduction in the availability of such financing or significant increase in the cost of such financing resulting from higher interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business. Availability of financing is dependent on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. For example, in the recent past, floorplan lenders have tightened credit availability, which has negatively affected the timing and accomplishment of our sales to our RV dealers, resulting in higher levels of finished goods inventory and associated financing costs. In response to lower demand, we offered retail-financing incentives to consumers resulting in a reduction in net sales, which negatively affected profitability. High inventories of recreational vehicles among dealers could continue to negatively affect our sales volume and profit margins. The level of recreational vehicle inventories among dealers can have a significant impact on manufacturing, shipments, inventory levels and operating results. As wholesale shipments of recreational vehicles within the industry exceed retail sales of vehicles, inventories at the dealer level expand to a point where dealers significantly cut orders from manufacturers. As manufacturers respond to reduced demand, many offer wholesale and retail discounts and incentives in an effort to maintain production volumes. As a result, dealer inventories may expand further resulting in an increasing need for discounts and sales incentives, or in the alternative, a need for dramatic reduction in overall production levels by manufacturers. Increased discounts and incentives, and reduced production levels negatively affect our revenues and profitability. For some of our components, we depend on a small group of suppliers, and the loss or business interruption of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our margins. Further, any defects in the third-party components or raw materials we incorporate into our motorhomes could negatively affect our sales and financial results. Most recreation vehicle and bus components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. Our NRV subsidiary purchases gasoline-powered chassis from Ford Motor Company and Workhorse Custom Chassis and rear engine diesel-powered chassis from Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation. We generally maintain a one to two month production supply of a chassis in inventory. Historically, in the event of an industry-wide restriction of supply, chassis manufacturers have allocated chassis among our competitors and us based on the volume of chassis previously purchased. If Ford Motor Company, Workhorse Custom Chassis or Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation were to discontinue the manufacturing of motor home chassis, or if as a group all of our chassis suppliers significantly reduced the availability of chassis to the industry, our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of these chassis manufacturers or other chassis suppliers could have a material adverse effect on us. Finally, as is standard in the industry, arrangements with chassis suppliers are terminable at any time by either the chassis supplier or us. If we cannot obtain an adequate chassis supply, this could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the chassis, we incorporate a variety of components and raw materials from third parties into our recreational vehicles. Any defects in these components or raw materials could cause us to incur significant expense in repairing, replacing or finding alternatives to the components or raw materials, could negatively impact the sales of affected motorhomes and could cause a material adverse impact on our financial results and financial condition. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of recreational vehicles. The recreational vehicles produced by us require gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation. Gasoline and diesel fuel have, at various times in the past, been difficult to obtain, and there can be no assurance that the supply of gasoline and diesel fuel will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of, or tax on, fuel will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel and rapid significant increases in fuel prices have had a significant adverse effect on the demand for recreational vehicles in the past and could have a material adverse effect on demand in the future. Such a reduction in overall demand for recreational vehicles could have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. 10 The consolidation of distribution channels within the RV industry could have a material negative effect on revenues and profitability. Over the last several years, several large-scale recreational vehicle dealers have grown to represent a significant presence in the industry. The expansion of large-scale dealers and the continued consolidation of dealerships among large players may result in increased pricing pressures in the industry in general. Such pressure exerted by the distribution channel may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A rise in the frequency or size of workers’ compensation, and other claims against us, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation related to workers’ compensation and other employee related claims. We substantially self-insure these claims with a self-insurance retention level for claims below specified limits. An increase in frequency in claims below the self-insurance retention level may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, insurance is not available for some kinds of claims; an insurance carrier may deny coverage resulting in potential litigation expenses and additional exposure to losses. Workers’ compensation insurance costs are directly attributable to experience in the workplace. Any increase in the frequency and size of such claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums required for insurance to rise significantly. Further, sizable claims may damage our reputation that may adversely affect our future operating and financial results. A rise in the frequency or size of warranty claims against us may result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We provide customers of our products with a basic one-year warranty covering defects in material or workmanship and a five-year warranty on certain structural components. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A large number of warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Further, some jurisdictions have laws providing for a multiple recovery on warranty claims in some circumstances. The possibility for class actions also exists. In addition to the warranty expenses incurred by us, sizable product warranty claims may damage our reputation among dealers, builders and consumers that may adversely affect our future operating and financial results. Repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders could result in increased costs. Most dealers finance all, or substantially all, of the purchase price of their inventory under floor plan arrangements with banks or finance companies under which the lender pays us directly. Dealers typically are not required to commence loan repayments to such lenders for a period of at least six months. The loan is collateralized by a lien on the motorhome. Consistent with industry practice, we have entered into repurchase agreements with these lenders. In general, the repurchase agreements require us to repurchase a unit if the dealer defaults on the financed unit. Upon a dealer default, the agreements generally require us to repurchase RVs at the election of the lender provided certain conditions are met, such as repossession of the RV by the lender, the RV being new and unused and the time elapsed between invoice date and demand for repurchase being no longer than a specified period which is typically 18 months or less. Increase in the significance or number of future losses under such agreements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. A rise in the frequency or size of “lemon law” and product liability claims against us may result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including a variety of warranty, “lemon law” and product liability claims typical in the recreation vehicle industry. With respect to product liability claims, our insurance policies cover, in whole or in part, defense costs and liability costs for personal injury or property damage (excluding damage to our motorhomes). We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for insurance to raise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business will be harmed. Changes in labor practices could adversely affect our labor costs and profitability. Currently, none of our employees are members of any union or covered under any collective bargaining agreement. We provide competitive wages and a variety of benefits to our employees, including group life, dental, vision services, hospitalization, major medical plans, and a 401(k) plan. Although we consider our relations with employees to be good, any material changes in labor costs or practices, including those resulting from union activity may have a negative impact on our profitability. 11 Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor may adversely affect our profitability if such costs cannot be offset because of market forces. Our financial results may be significantly adversely affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components (particularly those with substantial steel, copper, fiberglass or lumber content) and labor. We attempt to mitigate the effect of any cost inflation in raw materials, components and labor by negotiating with current or new suppliers, contract price escalators, increasing labor productivity or increasing the sales prices of our products. However, we cannot assure that such actions will not have an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and result in declining revenues. If we are unable to successfully offset increases in manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on margins, operating income and cash flows. If we increase prices to offset higher manufacturing costs, the benefit of such increases may lag behind the rise in manufacturing costs. The RV industry is highly competitive and some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we have. The market for motorized products is highly concentrated. This concentration is due in part to the higher barriers to entry within the motorized market, including the significant capital required for fixed asset investment, higher level of government regulation and dependence on a limited number of chassis suppliers. Consolidation within the industry may also increase overall competitive pressure. A number of our competitors have made acquisitions over the last five years that have increased their market share. Existing or new competitors could adversely affect our revenues and profit margins. For example, these competitors could develop products superior to our recreational vehicle offerings or that could achieve better consumer acceptance than our products. According to Statistical Surveys, Inc., the three leading manufacturers accounted for approximately 51.2% of total retail units sold in the Class A motorhome market during the year ended December 31, 2006. These companies and certain other competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Sales of used motorhomes also compete with our products. We compete on the basis of value, quality, price and design. According to Statistical Surveys, Inc., NRV Class A retail market share of new product unit sales, exclusive of CCI, was 5.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Sustained increases in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreational vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our market share, sales volume and profit margins. Changes in consumer preferences, and our ability to effectively adapt to those preferences, may adversely affect revenues and profitability. Consumer preferences for our recreational vehicles are likely to change over time, and as a result, we continually introduce new features, designs and models to meet changing consumer demand. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new features, designs or models, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As a result, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. We may also experience production difficulties, such as inefficiencies in purchasing and increased labor costs, as new models are introduced. In addition, new product introductions may reduce revenues from existing models and adversely affect operating results. There can be no assurance that any new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. New product introductions may result in unanticipated expenses resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new products is critical to our future success. We incur additional costs when new products are introduced, such as research and development costs, engineering costs, and initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies. Additionally, we may incur unexpected expenses, including those associated with unexpected engineering or design flaws that could force a recall of a new product. We may be prompted to offer additional incentives to stimulate the sales of products, not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete products. These types of costs could be substantial and could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in favorable tax laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that additional amendments and additional regulations affecting our products, or us, may be enacted in the future. Amendments to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Risks Related to Regulation and Compliance Changes to, or increases in, the regulations governing our businesses could have a material impact on operating and financial results. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (the “Motor Vehicle Act”), the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act (the “TREAD” Act) and the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“FMVSS”). Certain states require approval of coach designs and provide certification tags proving compliance before coaches can be sold into that state. The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles that contain safety defects or fail to comply with the FMVSS. In addition, we have, from time to time, instituted voluntary recalls of certain motorhome units. Future recalls of our products, if any, could have a material adverse effect on us and harm our reputation. We are also subject to some federal and state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws.” Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including trucks and motorhomes, that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways Amendments and changes in enforcement with respect to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new laws and regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these present or future laws or regulations could result in fines imposed, civil and criminal liability, or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We may be unable to comply in the future with financial covenants in our credit facility, which could restrict our ability to operate. At December 31, 2006, we had a $40 million asset-based revolving credit facility with UPS Capital Corporation (“UPSC”) and Wells Fargo Bank, after exercising two consecutive $5 million options to the line of credit in May and June 2006. The revolving credit facility expires in August 2008. Borrowing availability is based on eligible accounts receivable and inventory. The credit facility contains, among other provisions, certain financial covenants, including funded debt to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA), and a fixed charge coverage ratio. If these financial covenants are not met, our availability under the credit facility will be reduced. On February 21, 2007, we entered into a Loan Modification Agreement to the credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank. The agreement provides that Wells Fargo Bank replace UPSC and become the Agent and sole lender and reduces the credit facility from $40 million to $15 million. All existing covenant defaults are waived under the agreement and it further provides that certain financial covenants be amended to establish new minimum EBITDA requirements in April 2007. While we do not anticipate any events of default, in such an event, the lender could restrict our borrowings under the line of credit which could restrict or limit our ability to react to changes in market conditions and acquire properties or businesses and if we were unable to obtain a waiver on the line of credit from Wells Fargo Bank, the underlying assets could be called by Wells Fargo Bank. If our debt were to be accelerated, there is no assurance that we would be able to repay it. There are no guarantees that we could obtain sufficient financing resources as an alternative to the line of credit, which could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in significantly increased costs and capital expenditures. Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to the use, generation, storage, treatment, emissions, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and noise pollution. Such laws and regulations are becoming more stringent, and it is likely that future amendments to these environmental statutes and additional regulations promulgated there under will be applicable to us, our manufacturing operations and our products in the future. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, civil and criminal liability, suspension of operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or significant capital expenditures. 13 Other Risks Provisions in our charter documents, and of Delaware law, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company and could depress the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, as well as Delaware corporate law, may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. Such provisions also may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Common Stock. Certain of such provisions allow the Company’s Board of Directors to issue, without additional stockholder approval, preferred stock having rights senior to those of the Common Stock. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff comments as of the date of this report. 