Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below as well as other statements made in this Form 10-K that may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results or projections expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 12 Table of Contents In addition to the statements set forth below that explicitly describe risks and uncertainties to which our business and our financial condition and results of operations are subject, readers are urged to consider statements in future or conditional tenses or that include terms such as “believes,” “belief,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” that appear in this Form 10-K to be uncertain and forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may include comments as to our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business. Forward-looking statements are based upon our beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available to us, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. The factors stated under the heading “Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors” set forth below, as well as other factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected or predicted in forward-looking statements. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those reflected in or suggested by forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement that you read in this Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, financial condition, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this Form 10-K, which would cause actual results to differ from those referred to in forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material also may impair our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. If any of the risks described below or if any other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements that are intended to provide our current expectations with regard to those risks. There can be no assurance that our current expectations will be met, and our actual results may differ substantially from the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. We believe that we are emerging from a global recession in the United States, Europe and other regions of the world. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain, and may cause customers to further delay or reduce technology purchases due to continued softness in the real estate and mortgage markets or other markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. The global recession had an adverse impact on the sales of our products in 2009 leading to longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Given the continued uncertainty concerning the pace of growth in the global economy, we face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, resellers or customers, including: • The risk that customers or resellers to whom we sell our products and services may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment of accounts receivable that those customers or resellers may owe; • The risk that key suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in the products that we sell may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of printers, print materials or spare parts to our customers; and • The inability of customers, including resellers, suppliers and contract manufacturers to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products and raw materials used to build those products. 13 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasing our costs of doing business. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third party intellectual property claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from assembling or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the marketplaces in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and endeavor to combat unlicensed copying and use of our digital content and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. If our intellectual property becomes subject to piracy attacks, they may harm our business. Additionally, we endeavor to protect the secrecy of our digital content, confidential information and trade secrets. If unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets occurs, we could potentially lose trade secret protection. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying previously confidential features, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements. However there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights. We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that may involve significant risks and uncertainties. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert management. We completed twelve acquisitions in 2011, one of which was considered significant in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. We also completed the Z Corp and Vidar acquisitions in 2012 and we intend to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities in the future in an effort to expand our business and enhance stockholder value. Acquisitions involve certain risks and uncertainties including: • Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner, which may also impact our ability to realize the potential benefits associated with the acquisition; • The risk that significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration may be encountered; • The challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits; • The risk that our marketplaces do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in the marketplaces that we serve; • The risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying party; • The inability to maintain a relationship with key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; 14 Table of Contents • The difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • The risk of diverting management attention from our existing operations; • The potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or technology; • The risk of incurring significant exit costs if products or services are unsuccessful; • The entry into marketplaces where we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger marketplace positions; • The exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with our assuming claims or litigation risks from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or other third parties; and • The risk that historical financial information may not be representative or indicative of our results as a combined company. If we cease to generate net cash flow from operations and if we are unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition could be adversely affected. In 2011, our unrestricted cash and short-term investments increased by $141.8 million to $179.1 million at December 31, 2011 from $37.3 million at December 31, 2010. The cash balance at December 31, 2011 included the $145.4 million net proceeds from senior convertible notes previously discussed, including the cash purchase price for the Z Corp and Vidar acquisitions that we paid on January 3, 2012. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, net cash provided by operations was $27.7 million, $31.8 million and $7.7 million, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash from operations or other potential sources to fund future working capital needs and meet capital expenditure requirements. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the capital markets, our financial condition at such time and the terms and conditions of such indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. During 2011 we carried out two capital markets transactions and received $207.4 million of net proceeds from them. From time-to-time we may seek access to additional external sources of capital to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. However, we cannot assure you that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or equity financings or other potential sources to fund any of those future needs. The global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening of credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. As a consequence, credit markets tightened significantly such that the ability to raise new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. If our ability to generate cash flow from operations and our existing cash becomes inadequate to meet our needs, our options for addressing such capital constraints include, but are not limited to, (i) obtaining a revolving credit facility from bank lenders, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to obtain additional debt financing it is likely that such alternatives in the current market environment would be on less favorable terms than we have historically obtained, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any 15 Table of Contents necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or enter into other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy. The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product offerings, including our printers, print materials and services, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margin depending upon the mix of product shipments from quarter to quarter. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the mix of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. In some quarters, it is possible that results could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or decline. We believe that our future success may depend on our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs. Our business may be affected by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our existing products and proprietary technology and printers obsolete. Accordingly, our ongoing research and development programs are intended to enable us to maintain technological leadership. We believe that to remain competitive we must continually enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to: • Develop or obtain leading technologies useful in our business; • Enhance our existing products; • Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers, particularly in the area of print materials functionality; • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; or • Recruit or retain key technology employees. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from business conducted outside the U.S and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S. Approximately 50 percent of our consolidated revenue is derived from customers in countries outside the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of our operations outside the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, they could be adversely affected by: • Unexpected changes in laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • Changes in regulatory requirements, including export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions, competition, corporate practices and data privacy concerns; • Political policies, political or civil unrest, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks; 16 Table of Contents • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe and extended holiday periods in various parts of the world; • Limited protection for the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights in some countries; • Transportation delays; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; • Taxation; and • Other factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. These uncertainties may make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities and may lead our customers in certain countries to delay purchases of our products and services. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in global financial markets and economies. The consequences of terrorism or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. While the geographic areas outside the U.S. in which we operate are generally not considered to be highly inflationary, our foreign operations are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates arising from, among other things, certain intercompany transactions that are generally denominated, for example, in U.S. dollars rather than their respective functional currencies. Moreover, our operations are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when we consider it to be appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We face significant competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our revenue and gross profit margins to decline. Competition could also cause us to reduce sales prices or to incur additional marketing or production costs, which could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and reduced margins. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of equipment for models, prototypes, other three-dimensional objects and end-use parts as well as producers of print materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of competitive equipment, print materials and services. Many of these competitors have financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment and print materials that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products, and from improvements to existing print materials and equipment technologies. We intend to continue to follow a strategy of continuing product development to enhance our position to the extent practicable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position in the field or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products, we may lose revenue and demand for our products. 17 Table of Contents We depend on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and for raw materials used in our print materials. If these relationships were to terminate or be disrupted, our business could be disrupted while we locate alternative suppliers and our expenses may increase. We have outsourced the assembly of certain of our printers to third party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our printers from third party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our print materials, as well as certain of those print materials, from third party suppliers. While there are several potential suppliers of the components, parts and sub-assemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components, including our lasers, print materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers involves many risks including: • Potential shortages of some key components; • Disruptions in the operations of these suppliers; • Product performance shortfalls; and • Reduced control over delivery schedules, assembly capabilities, quality and costs. While we believe that we can obtain all the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become “qualified” pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying durations. We generally have our printers assembled based on our internal forecasts and the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties, which are subject to various lead times. In addition, at any time, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use. Any unanticipated change in the sources of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble certain of our production printers. In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including: • The risk that the parties that we retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; • The risk of disruption in the supply of printers to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of printers that are needed to meet then current customer demand; and • The risk of insolvency of these suppliers, as well as the risk that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. We face risks in connection with changes in energy-related expenses. We and our suppliers depend on various energy products in processes used to produce our products. Generally, we acquire products at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge energy prices. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in energy prices. In addition, many of the customers and industries to whom we market our printers and print materials are directly or indirectly dependent upon the cost and availability of energy resources. Our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our or our customers’ energy-related expenses increase, both as a result of higher costs of producing, and potentially lower profit margins in selling, our products and print materials and because increased energy costs may cause our customers to delay or reduce purchases of our printers and print materials. 18 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed and used by customers. This could result in delayed marketplace acceptance of the product, claims from customers or others, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer, their effect is subject to a variety of legal limitations, and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. Historically, our common stock price has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, considerable volatility. Between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the two-for-one stock split in the nature of a 100% stock dividend that we distributed in May 2011, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $5.25 per share to a high of $29.35 per share. Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including those described or referred to in this “Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K, as well as, among other things: • Our perceived value in the securities markets; • Overall trends in the stock market; • Announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one or more of our competitors; • The impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects on how we are perceived in the securities markets; • Future sales of our common stock or other securities (including any shares issued in connection with our outstanding senior convertible notes or earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition); • Market conditions for providers of products and services such as ours; • Changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • Announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. The number of shares of common stock issuable in a stock offering, the exercise of outstanding stock options, the issuance of restricted stock awards or the issuance of shares in connection with certain acquisitions or the conversion of the notes could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may affect the market price for our common stock. We have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 under which, among other things, we may issue up to $175 million of securities. We issued $65.8 million of Common Stock in 2011 in reliance upon this registration statement and the remaining $109.2 million of securities covered by it may be issued until March 3, 2014, although we have no current intention to do so. Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our issuance of up to a total 120 million shares of common stock, of which 63.3 million have been issued or are otherwise currently reserved for issuance. Future issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders’ individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, subject to the limitations of our Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options, may dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2011, all of which were fully vested and remained exercisable at that date. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, none of which is currently issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including dividend rights, liquidation preferences and other economic rights, senior to the common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares, possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or to carry out any other transaction that may effect a change in our control. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change (as such term is defined in the indenture covering such notes), holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of the notes they hold or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares of common stock upon conversion of such notes. Our balance sheet contains several categories of intangible assets totaling $161.7 million at December 31, 2011 that we could be required to write off or write down in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances. Such write-offs or write-downs could adversely impact our future earnings and stock price, our ability to obtain financing and affect our customer relationships. At December 31, 2011, we had $107.7 million in goodwill capitalized on our balance sheet. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other,” requires that goodwill and some 20 Table of Contents long-lived intangibles be tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment at other times as circumstances warrant, and such testing could result in write-downs of some of our goodwill and long-lived intangibles. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over the fair value of the underlying asset. A key factor in determining whether impairment has occurred is the relationship between our market capitalization and our book value. Accordingly, we may, from time to time, incur impairment charges, which are recorded as operating expenses when they are incurred and would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results in the period in which they are incurred. As of December 31, 2011, we had $54.0 million of other intangible assets, net, consisting of licenses, patents, and other intangibles that we amortize over time. Any material impairment to any of these items would result in a non-cash charge and would not impact our cash position or cash flows, but such a charge could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and could affect the trading price of our common stock in the period in which they are incurred. As discussed below, we completed several business acquisitions during 2009, 2010 and 2011. The majority of the acquisitions have resulted in our recording additional goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase price for these businesses reflects a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiples to earnings, cash flow and other factors, such as prices at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which we acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. We expect to record additional goodwill as a result of the Z Corp and Vidar acquisitions, but we have not determined the amount thereof at the date of this Form 10-K. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates — Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets.” Changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a U.S. based, multinational company subject to taxation in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that we expect may result from the current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 