Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 9 Table of Contents Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below as well as other statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to the statements set forth below that explicitly describe risks and uncertainties to which our business and our financial condition and results of operations are subject, readers are urged to consider statements in future or conditional tenses or that include terms such as “believes,” “belief,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be uncertain and forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may include comments as to our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business. Forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations concerning future events and trends and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. The factors stated under the heading “Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors” set forth below, as well as other factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected or predicted in forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, using information currently available to us. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those reflected in or suggested by forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement that you read in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which would cause actual results to differ from those referred to in forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. If we were unable to generate net cash flow from operations or if we were unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition could be adversely affected. In 2008, our unrestricted cash and short-term investments declined by $7.5 million, to $22.2 million at December 31, 2008 from $29.7 million at December 31, 2007. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, net cash provided by (used in) operations was ($3.5) million, $2.6 million and ($8.6) million, respectively. We cannot assure you that we would generate cash from operations or other potential sources to fund future working capital needs and meet capital expenditure requirements. During 2007 and 2006, we depended heavily on external financings, including the issuance of common stock and bank borrowings, to provide us with cash to support our operations. During 2007, we repaid those bank borrowings and elected to permit the credit facility under which we made those borrowings expire. In early 2009 we repaid the remainder of our outstanding debt obligations for borrowed money. However, we cannot assure you that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or 10 Table of Contents equity financings or other potential sources to fund future operating costs, debt-service obligations and capital requirements. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. In addition, several large financial institutions worldwide have recently either failed or been dependent upon government assistance to continue to operate as going concerns. If our ability to generate cash flow from operations is inadequate to meet our needs, our options for addressing such capital constraints include, but are not limited to, (i) obtaining a revolving credit facility from bank lenders, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital it is likely that such alternatives in the current market would be on less favorable terms than we have historically obtained, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy. We face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, resellers or customers. Given the direction and continued weakening of the global economy, we face a number of risks, including: • The risk that customers or resellers to whom we sell our products and services may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment of accounts receivable that those customers or resellers may owe; and • The risk that suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in the products that we sell may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of systems, materials or spare parts to our customers. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. The direction and relative strength of the global economy has recently deteriorated significantly due to softness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. Economic growth in the United States and other countries continues to slow, and may cause customers to further delay or reduce technology purchases. These and other macroeconomic factors had an adverse impact in 2008 on the sales of our products, leading to longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening of credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. These conditions have made it more difficult to obtain financing. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key resellers, key suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers, and the inability of customers, including resellers, suppliers and contract manufacturers to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products and raw materials used to build those products. 11 Table of Contents We believe that our future success may depend on our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs. Our business may be affected by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our existing products and proprietary technology and systems obsolete. For that reason, we maintain an ongoing research and development program that is designed to improve our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that enable us to maintain our technological leadership. We believe that to remain competitive we must continually enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to: • Develop or obtain leading technologies useful in our business; • Enhance our existing products; • Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers, particularly in the area of materials’ functionality; • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; or • Recruit and retain key technology employees. We face risks associated with conducting business outside of the U.S., and, if we do not manage these risks, our costs may increase, our revenue from operations outside of the U.S. may decline, and we may suffer other adverse effects to our results of operations and financial condition. More than 50% of our consolidated revenue is derived from customers in countries outside of the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside of the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of our operations outside of the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, they could be adversely affected by: • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Export controls, tariffs and other barriers; • Social and political risks; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe; • Limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Taxation; • Terrorism; and • Other factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. In this regard, while the geographic areas outside the U.S. in which we operate are generally not considered to be highly inflationary, these foreign operations are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates arising from, among other things, certain intercompany transactions that are generally denominated in U.S. dollars rather than their respective functional currencies. Our operating results, assets and liabilities are subject to the effect of foreign currency translation when the operating results and the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. The assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars based on the translation rate in effect at the end of the related reporting period. The operating results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars based on the average conversion rate for the related period. 12 Table of Contents Moreover, our operations are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when we consider it to be appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Our balance sheet contains several categories of intangible assets totaling $51.7 million at December 31, 2008 that we could be required to write off or write down in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances. Such write offs or write downs could adversely impact our future earnings and stock price, our ability to obtain financing and adversely affect our customer relationships. At December 31, 2008, we had $48.0 million in goodwill capitalized on our balance sheet. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” (“SFAS No. 142”) requires that goodwill and some long-lived intangibles be tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment at other times as circumstances warrant, and such testing could result in write-downs of some of our goodwill and long-lived intangibles. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over the fair value of the underlying asset. A key factor in determining whether impairment has occurred is the relationship between our market capitalization and our book value. Accordingly, we may, from time to time, incur impairment charges, which are recorded as operating expenses when they are incurred and would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results in the period in which they are incurred. As of December 31, 2008, we had $3.7 million of other net intangible assets, consisting of licenses, patents, and other intangibles that we amortize over time. Any material impairment to any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations and could affect the trading price of our common stock in the period in which they are incurred. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates — Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets.” We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasing our costs of doing business. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third party intellectual property claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. A risk exists that we may have to restate our financial statements. In 2007, we restated our financial statements for the first three quarters of 2006 and all of 2005 and 2004. While we believe that the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K complies with Section 13(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Securities and Exchange Act”) and that the 13 Table of Contents financial information contained herein fairly presents, in all material aspects, our financial condition and results of operations for the years and periods presented, the SEC or other authorities may disagree with the manner in which we reported various matters or we may discover additional information that impacts the information contained herein. Accordingly, we may be required to restate our financial statements, to amend our prior filings with the SEC or to take other actions that we do not currently contemplate. If we do not make future filings with the SEC in a timely manner, our stock may be delisted. In the period from September 30, 2006 through March 31, 2007, we did not file certain periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner and received notices from the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC that we were not in compliance with its rules, which require timely filing of periodic reports in order to maintain our continued listing on that securities exchange. Although these matters were resolved favorably to us, future delays in the filing of timely periodic reports may negatively affect the listing of our common stock. As a consequence of such delisting, if it were to occur, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. We could experience material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008 we believe that we have remediated all past material weaknesses but we can provide no assurance that we will not experience material weaknesses in the future. As we have previously disclosed, at December 31, 2007 and 2006, material weaknesses existed relating to, among other things, our internal controls over financial reporting with respect to the oversight and review of our inventory costing system and the design and operation of certain inventory shipments and recognition of the related revenue. We completed a number of remedial actions in the first quarter of 2008 to correct these weaknesses, and we believe that no additional remedial efforts are required with respect to these weaknesses. Nevertheless, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in the identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. We face significant competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our revenue and gross profit margins to decline. The competition in our industry could cause us to reduce sales prices or to incur additional marketing or production costs, which could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and reduced margins. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of equipment for models, prototypes, other three-dimensional objects and end-use parts as well as producers of materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of competitive equipment, materials and services. Many of these competitors have financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment and materials that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products, and from improvements to existing materials and equipment technologies. We intend to follow a strategy of continuing product development to enhance our position to the extent practicable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position in the field or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products, we may lose revenue and demand for our products. 14 Table of Contents We depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for components and sub-assemblies used in our systems and raw materials used in our materials. If these relationships were to terminate, our business could be disrupted while we locate an alternative supplier and our expenses may increase. We have outsourced the assembly of our systems to third-party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our systems from third-party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our materials, as well as certain of those materials, from third-party suppliers. While there are several potential suppliers of the material components, parts and subassemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components, including our lasers, materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of vendors involves many risks including: • Potential shortages of some key components; • Product performance shortfalls; and • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capabilities, quality and costs. If any of our suppliers suffers business disruptions or financial difficulties, or if there is any significant change in the condition of our relationship with the supplier, our cost of goods sold may increase and we may be unable to obtain these components from alternative sources quickly. While we believe that we can obtain all of the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become “qualified” pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying duration. We generally have our systems assembled based on our internal forecasts and the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties, which are subject to various lead times. In addition, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use at any time. Any unanticipated change in the source of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. We face risks in connection with the outsourcing of the assembly of our equipment models to selected design and manufacturing companies. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble our equipment, including our SLA®, SLS® and 3-D printing systems. In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including: • The risk that the parties that we identify and retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; • The risk of disruption in the supply of systems to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of systems that are needed to meet then current customer demand; and • The risks include the risk of insolvency of these suppliers as well as the risk that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. We rely significantly on enterprise resource technology systems to operate our business, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of those systems or their related technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning system to which we make modifications on an ongoing basis. 15 Table of Contents If we were to fail to operate this system or to enter, maintain and process records in it correctly, if the system failed to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of this system occurred, we could be subject to delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, we could be required to incur significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, and our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial information could be impaired. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks in connection with changes in energy-related expenses. We and our suppliers depend on various energy products in manufacturing processes used to produce our products. Generally, we acquire products at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge energy prices. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in energy prices. In addition, many of the customers and industries to whom we market our systems and materials are directly or indirectly dependent upon the cost and availability of energy resources. Our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our or our customers’ energy-related expenses increase, both as a result of higher costs of producing, and potentially lower profit margins in selling, our products and materials and because increased energy costs may cause our customers to delay or reduce purchases of our systems and materials. We face risks in connection with the effect of new pronouncements by accounting authorities. From time to time, accounting authorities issue new rules and pronouncements that may have adverse effects on our reported results of operations or financial condition, influence customers’ ability and willingness to make capital expenditures such as purchases of our systems or may otherwise have material adverse effects on our business and profitability. We face risks in connection with our success in acquiring and integrating new businesses. In the past, we have acquired other businesses and technologies as part of our growth and strategic plans. We may make future acquisitions, and those acquisitions may be subject to certain risks, including risks that the costs of such acquisitions may be greater than anticipated and that the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may be materially delayed or not realized. The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or net loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product offerings, including our systems, materials and services, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margin depending upon the variety of product shipments from quarter to quarter. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the variety of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. In some quarters, it is possible that results could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or decline. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed 16 Table of Contents and used by customers. This could result in delayed market acceptance of the product, claims from customers or others, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer, their effect is subject to a variety of legal limitations, and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. Other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results could adversely be affected by the following factors: • Acceptance and reliability of new products in the marketplace; • Size and timing of product shipments; • Fluctuations in the costs of materials and parts; • Currency and economic fluctuations in foreign marketplaces and other factors affecting international business activities; • Price competition; • Delays in the introduction of new products; • General worldwide economic conditions; • Changes in the variety of products and services sold; • Impact of ongoing litigation; and • Impact of changing technologies. Political and economic events and the uncertainty resulting from them may have a material adverse effect on our market opportunities and operating results. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, geopolitical and social turmoil or epidemics and other similar outbreaks, in many parts of the world could prevent or hinder our ability to conduct business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. For example, increased instability may adversely impact the desire of employees and customers to travel, the availability and reliability of transportation and the ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates and may require us to incur increased costs for security measures. These uncertainties make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities and may lead our customers in certain countries to delay purchases of our products and services. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in global financial markets and economies. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. The consequences of terrorism or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. The stockholders’ rights plan adopted by the Board of Directors in 2008 may inhibit takeovers and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors approved the creation of our Series A Preferred Stock and adopted a stockholders’ rights plan pursuant to which it declared a dividend of one Series A Preferred Stock purchase right for each 17 Table of Contents share of our common stock held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 22, 2008. The preferred share purchase rights will also attach to any additional shares of common stock issued after December 22, 2008. Initially, these rights will not be exercisable and will trade with the shares of our common stock. Under the rights plan, these rights will generally be exercisable only if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for 15 percent or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, each right will permit its holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock for the exercise price of $55.00 per right. The rights plan also contains customary “flip-in” and “flip-over” provisions such that if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our common stock, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of our common stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $55.00 per right by one-half the then current market price of our common stock. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we are later acquired in a merger or similar transaction, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of the acquiring corporation’s stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $55.00 per right by one-half of the then current market price of the acquiring company’s common stock, based on the market price of the acquiring corporation’s stock prior to such merger. The stockholders’ rights plan and the associated Series A Preferred Stock purchase rights may discourage a hostile takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock. Various provisions of Delaware law may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Historically, our common stock has been characterized by generally low daily trading volume, and our common stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock ranged from $5.97 to $15.97 per share during 2008. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: • Our perceived value in the securities markets; • Future announcements concerning developments affecting our business or those of our competitors, including the receipt or loss of substantial orders for products; • Overall trends in the stock market; • The impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects on how we are perceived in the securities markets; • Changes in recommendations of securities analysts; and • Sales or purchases of substantial blocks of stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options could dilute your ownership and negatively impact the market price for our common stock. Approximately 0.9 million shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2008, all of which were then exercisable. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, of which 1 million shares were authorized as Series A Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue 18 Table of Contents these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to the common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On November 30, 2007, the staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance (the “SEC Staff”) issued a comment letter to us regarding our Form 10-K/A for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2007. We responded to the SEC Staff’s comments on February 7, 2008, and the SEC Staff replied with additional comments on March 4, 2008. We responded to these additional comments on May 2, 2008 and have received no additional comments from the SEC Staff since that date. We do not believe that the SEC Staff’s comments are material in nature. However, no assurances can be given that we will not receive additional comments from the SEC Staff or that the SEC Staff will agree with our assessment of those comments. 