Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below as well as other statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 9 In addition to the statements set forth below that explicitly describe risks and uncertainties to us, our business and our financial condition and results of operations, readers are urged to consider statements in future or conditional tenses or that include terms such as “believes,” “belief,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be uncertain and forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may include comments as to our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business. Forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations concerning future events and trends and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. The factors stated under the heading “Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors” set forth below, as well as other factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected or predicted in forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, using information currently available to us. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those reflected in or suggested by forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement that you read in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which would cause actual results to differ from those referred to in forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. If we were unable to generate net cash flow from operations or if we were unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition would be adversely affected. During 2007 and 2006, we depended heavily on external financings to provide us with cash to support our operations. During these years, we also incurred $6.7 million and $30.7 million, respectively, of net losses available to common stockholders. Even if the favorable trend in our operations that we experienced in late 2007 were to continue, we cannot assure you that we would generate funds from operations or that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or equity financings or other potential sources to fund future operating costs, debt-service obligations and capital requirements. The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy. 10 Our balance sheet contains several categories of intangible assets totaling $52.9 million that we could be required to write off or write down in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances, which could adversely impact our future earnings and stock price, our ability to obtain financing and adversely affect our customer relationships. At December 31, 2007, we had $47.7 million in goodwill capitalized on our balance sheet. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS No. 142”) requires that goodwill and some long-lived intangibles be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over the fair value of the underlying asset. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant, and such testing could result in write-downs of some of our goodwill and long-lived intangibles. Accordingly, we may, from time to time, incur impairment charges, which are recorded as operating expenses when they are incurred and would reduce our net income and adversely affect our operating results in the period in which they are incurred. As of December 31, 2007, we had $5.2 million of other net intangible assets, consisting of licenses, patents, acquired technology and other intangibles that we amortize over time. Any material impairment to any of these items could reduce our net income and could affect the trading price of our common stock in the period in which they are incurred. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates — Goodwill and intangible and other long-lived assets.” A risk exists that we may have to restate our financial statements While we believe that the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K complies with Section 13(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Securities and Exchange Act”) and that the financial information contained therein fairly presents, in all material aspects, our financial condition and results of operations for the years and periods presented, the SEC or other authorities may disagree with the manner in which we reported various matters or we may discover additional information that impacts the information contained therein. Accordingly, we may be required to restate our financial statements, to amend our prior filings with the SEC or to take other actions that we do not currently contemplate. If we do not make future filings with the SEC in a timely manner, our stock may be delisted. In the period from September 30, 2006 through March 31, 2007, we did not file certain periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner and received notices from the Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC that we were not in compliance with its rules, which require timely filing of periodic reports in order to maintain our continued listing on that securities exchange. Although these matters were resolved favorably to us, future delays in the filing of timely periodic reports may negatively affect the listing of our common stock. As a consequence of such delisting, if it were to occur, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. We rely significantly on enterprise resource technology systems to operate our business, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of those systems or their related technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning system to which we make modifications on an on-going basis. If we were to fail to operate this system or to enter, maintain and process records in it correctly, if the system failed to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of this system 11 occurred, we could be subject to delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, we could be required to incur significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, and our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial information could be impaired. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, results of operations and financial condition. We face continuing risks from transitioning our inventory management and distribution to a third-party service provider. During 2006, we outsourced the logistics and warehousing of our spare-parts inventory and certain of our finished goods supply activities to a third-party service provider. In transitioning these responsibilities to the third-party provider and in using its services, we continue to face a number of risks, including: • The risk that the third-party service provider may not perform its logistics and warehousing tasks in a satisfactory manner; • The risk of disruption in the supply of spare parts or other items to our customers if the third party does not perform the logistics and warehousing services, and, as a result, we are unable to maintain sufficient inventory or to timely distribute spare parts or other items to meet our customers’ demands; • The risk that we will not realize the anticipated financial and operational benefits that we expect to receive from transitioning these services to and from using a third party; and • The risk that deficiencies in the internal controls of the third-party service provider could compromise the data we receive from it and negatively impact our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Our material weaknesses result in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, we must perform additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in restatements. We face risks in connection with our ability to successfully centralize the administrative functions for all of our European subsidiaries at a new shared service center. We are continuing to transition most of the administrative functions for our European subsidiaries to a centralized shared service center located in the United Kingdom. We face ongoing risks in connection with this undertaking, including: • The risk that we may face unforeseen delays in centralizing the administrative functions of our European subsidiaries; • The risk that we may lose employees who are important to our business as a result of relocating and centralizing these administrative functions; and 12 • The risk that employees whom we hire to replace these employees may not perform their tasks in a satisfactory manner. We face risks in connection with changes in energy-related expenses. We and our suppliers depend on various energy products in manufacturing processes used to produce our products. Generally, we acquire energy products at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge prices. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in energy prices. In addition, many of the customers and industries to whom we market our systems and materials are directly or indirectly dependent upon the cost and availability of energy resources. Our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our or our customers’ energy-related expenses increase, both as a result of higher costs of producing, and potentially lower profit margins in selling, our products and materials and because increased energy costs may cause our customers to delay or reduce purchases of our systems and materials. We face risks in connection with the effect of new pronouncements by accounting authorities. From time to time, accounting authorities issue new rules and pronouncements that may have adverse effects on our reported results of operations or financial condition, may influence customers’ ability and willingness to make capital expenditures such as purchases of our systems or may otherwise have material adverse effects on our business and profitability. We face risks in connection with our success in acquiring and integrating new businesses. In the past, we have acquired other businesses and technologies as part of our growth and strategic plans. We may make future acquisitions, and those acquisitions may be subject to certain risks, including risks that the costs of such acquisitions may be greater than anticipated and that the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may be materially delayed or not realized. The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or net loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product offerings, including our systems, materials and services, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margin depending upon the variety of product shipments from quarter to quarter. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the variety of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed and used by customers. This could result in delayed market acceptance of the product, claims from customers or others, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer as well as to a variety of legal limitations, and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. 13 The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. We face significant competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our revenue and gross profit margins to decline. The competition in our industry could cause us to reduce sales prices or to incur additional marketing or production costs, which could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and reduced margins. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of equipment for models, prototypes, other three-dimensional objects and end-use parts as well as producers of materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of competitive equipment, materials and services. Many of these competitors have financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than those of ours. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment and materials that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products, and from improvements to existing materials and equipment technologies. We intend to follow a strategy of continuing product development to enhance our position to the extent practicable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position in the field or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products, we may lose revenue and demand for our products. We believe that our future success may depend on our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs. We are affected by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our existing products and proprietary technology and systems obsolete. We believe that to remain competitive we must continually enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. Therefore, there is a risk that we may not be able to: • Develop or obtain leading technologies useful in our business; • Enhance our existing products; • Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers, particularly in the area of materials’ functionality; • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; or • Recruit and retain key technology employees. We depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for components and sub-assemblies used in our systems and raw materials used in our materials. If these relationships were to terminate, our business could be disrupted while we locate an alternative supplier and our expenses may increase. We have outsourced the assembly of our systems to third-party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our systems from third-party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our materials, as well as certain of those materials, from third-party suppliers. While there are several potential suppliers of the material components, parts and subassemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these 14 components, including our lasers, materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of vendors involves many risks including: • Potential shortages of some key components; • Product performance shortfalls; and • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capabilities, quality and costs. If any of our suppliers suffers business disruptions or financial difficulties, or if there is any significant change in the condition of our relationship with the supplier, our cost of goods sold may increase and we may be unable to obtain these components from alternative sources quickly. While we believe that we can obtain all of the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become “qualified” pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying duration. We generally have our systems assembled based on our internal forecasts, the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties are subject to various lead times. In addition, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use at any time. Any unanticipated change in the source of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. We face risks in connection with the outsourcing of the assembly of our equipment models to selected design and manufacturing companies. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble our equipment portfolio, including our SLA®, SLS® and 3-D modeling systems. In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including: • The risk that the parties that we identify and retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; • The risk of disruption in the supply of systems to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of systems that are needed to meet then current customer demand; and • The risks that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. Many factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results could adversely be affected by the following factors: • Acceptance and reliability of new products in the marketplace; • Size and timing of product shipments; • Fluctuations in the costs of materials and parts; • Currency and economic fluctuations in foreign marketplaces and other factors affecting international business activities; • Price competition; • Delays in the introduction of new products; • General worldwide economic conditions; • Changes in the variety of products and services sold; 15 • Impact of ongoing litigation; and • Impact of changing technologies. We face risks associated with conducting business outside of the U.S., and, if we do not manage these risks, our costs may increase, our revenue from operations outside of the U.S. may decline, and we may suffer other adverse effects to our results of operations and financial condition. More than 50% of our consolidated revenue is derived from customers in countries outside of the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside of the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of our operations outside of the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, they could be adversely affected by: • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Export controls, tariffs and other barriers; • Social and political risks; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe; • Limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Taxation; • Terrorism; and, • Other factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. Political and economic events and the uncertainty resulting from them may have a material adverse effect on our market opportunities and operating results. Terrorism in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere and continued violence in the Middle East and elsewhere and the related U.S. military campaigns have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and revenue. As a result of these uncertainties, spending on capital equipment of the type that we sell may be weaker than spending in the economy as a whole. These uncertainties may also lead our customers in certain industries to delay not only purchases of equipment and systems but also the materials and services that we sell as well. The long-term effects of these uncertainties on our customers, the trading price for our common stock, the market for our services and the U.S. economy as a whole are uncertain. The consequences of any additional terrorist attacks or of any expanded armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. Laws that inhibit takeovers may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Various provisions of Delaware law may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. 16 Our operating results vary from quarter to quarter, which could impact our stock price. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may continue to fluctuate in the future. In some quarters, it is possible that results could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. Historically, our common stock has been characterized by generally low daily trading volume, and our common stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock ranged from $14.28 to $26.50 per share during 2007. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: • Our perceived value in the securities markets; • Future announcements concerning developments affecting our business or those of our competitors, including the receipt or loss of substantial orders for products; • Overall trends in the stock market; • The impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects on how we are perceived in the securities markets; • Changes in recommendations of securities analysts; and • Sales or purchases of substantial blocks of stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options could dilute your ownership and negatively impact the market price for our common stock. Approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2007, all of which were then exercisable. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes and series of our authorized preferred stock without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock without in most cases any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to the common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Our debt level could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to run our business. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding debt, including outstanding capitalized lease obligations related primarily to our Rock Hill, South Carolina facility, had declined to $12.2 million from $36.1 million at December 31, 2006. This debt included in both 2007 and 2006 the capitalized lease value of our Rock Hill, South Carolina facility, the financing of certain furniture and fixtures for the Rock Hill facility and the industrial development bonds covering our Colorado facility. In 2006, this debt also included our then outstanding 6% convertible subordinated debentures, all of which were converted into common stock in 2007, and $8.2 million of outstanding revolving credit borrowings. 17 This level of debt could have important consequences to you as a holder of common stock. We have identified below some of the material potential consequences resulting from this significant amount of debt: • We could be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. • Our ability to adapt to changing market conditions could be hampered, and we could be more vulnerable in a volatile market and at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. • Our operating flexibility could be limited by restrictive covenants contained in credit documents such as restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on properties, making acquisitions and paying dividends and requirements that we satisfy certain financial covenants such as the maintenance of certain levels of net worth, interest coverage ratios, fixed-charge coverage ratios or other financial covenants. • We could be subject to the risks that interest rates, interest expense and fixed charges will increase. • We could be subject to the risk of default under one or more of these obligations, thereby causing acceleration of outstanding debt. • Our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business may be more limited. Our operating results may be insufficient to achieve compliance with financial covenants in financing documents, thereby causing acceleration of outstanding debt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On November 30, 2007, the staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance (the “SEC Staff”) issued a comment letter to us regarding our Form 10-K/A for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2007. We responded to the SEC Staff’s comments on February 7, 2008, and the SEC Staff replied with additional comments on March 4, 2008. We do not believe that those comments are material in nature. However, no assurances can be given that we will not receive additional comments from the SEC Staff or that the SEC Staff will agree with our assessment of those comments. 