RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company Our business depends on our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company, and changes in this relationship may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Approximately 96% of our sales volume in 2005 was derived from sales of Coca-Cola trademark beverages. In each of our territories, produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola trademark beverages through standard bottler agreements. Through its rights under the bottler agreements and as a large shareholder, The Coca-Cola Company has the ability to exercise substantial influence over the conduct of our business. Under our bottler agreements, The Coca-Cola Company may unilaterally set the price for its concentrate. In 2005, The Coca-Cola Company informed us that it will gradually increase concentrate prices for carbonated soft drinks over a three year period in Mexico beginning in 2007 and in Brazil beginning in 2006. We prepare a three-year general business plan that is submitted to our board of directors for approval. The Coca-Cola Company may require that we demonstrate our financial ability to meet our plans and may terminate our rights to produce, market and distribute soft drinks in territories with respect to which such approval is withheld. The Coca-Cola Company also makes significant contributions to our marketing expenses although it is not required to contribute a particular amount. In addition, we are prohibited from bottling any soft drink product or distributing other beverages without The Coca-Cola Company’s authorization or consent. The Coca-Cola Company has the exclusive right to import and export Coca-Cola trademark beverages to and from our territories; although, we hold the exclusive right to sell Coca-Cola trademark beverages within our territories. We may not transfer control of the bottler rights of any of our territories without the consent of The Coca-Cola Company. We depend on The Coca-Cola Company to renew our bottler agreements. Our bottler agreements for Mexico expire in 2013, and 2015, renewable in each case for ten-year terms. Our bottler agreements for Brazil expired in December 2004, and our bottler agreements for Guatemala, Nicaragua and Colombia expire in June 2006. Our bottler agreement for Coca-Cola trademark beverages in Venezuela expires in August 2006. We are currently in the process of negotiating renewals of these agreements. Our remaining territories are governed by bottler agreements that expire after 2006 and have similar renewal periods. There can be no assurances that The Coca-Cola Company will decide to renew any of these agreements. In addition, these agreements generally may be terminated in the event that we fail to comply with their terms. Termination would prevent us from selling Coca-Cola trademark beverages in the affected territory and would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA have substantial influence on the conduct of our business, which may result in us taking actions contrary to the interest of our remaining shareholders. The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA have significant influence on the conduct of our business. The Coca-Cola Company indirectly owns 39.6% of our outstanding capital stock, representing 46.4% of our capital stock with full voting rights. The Coca-Cola Company is entitled to appoint four of our 18 directors and certain of our executive officers and, except under limited circumstances, has the power to veto all actions requiring approval by our board of directors. FEMSA indirectly owns 45.7% of our outstanding capital stock, representing 53.6% of our capital stock with full voting rights. FEMSA is entitled to appoint 11 members of our board of directors and certain of our executive officers. The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA together, or FEMSA acting alone in certain limited circumstances, thus have the power to determine the outcome of all actions requiring approval by our board of directors, and FEMSA and The Coca-Cola Company together, except in certain limited situations, have the power to determine the outcome of all actions requiring approval of our shareholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—The Shareholders Agreement.” The interests of The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA may be different from the interests of our remaining shareholders, which may result in us taking actions contrary to the interest of our remaining shareholders. 7 Table of Contents We have significant transactions with affiliates, particularly The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA, which create potential conflicts of interest and could result in less favorable terms to us. We engage in transactions with subsidiaries of both The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA. Our transactions with FEMSA include supply agreements under which we purchase certain supplies and equipment, a service agreement under which a FEMSA subsidiary transports finished products from our production facilities to distribution facilities in Mexico, sales of finished products to a Mexican convenience store chain owned by FEMSA, sales and distribution agreements with a Brazilian brewer owned by FEMSA and a service agreement under which a FEMSA subsidiary provides administrative services to our company. In addition, we have entered into cooperative marketing arrangements with The Coca-Cola Company and FEMSA. We are a party to a number of bottler agreements with The Coca-Cola Company and have also entered into a credit agreement with The Coca-Cola Company pursuant to which we may borrow up to US$ 250 million for working capital and other general corporate purposes. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions” and “