Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to Our Industry and Real Estate Investments Our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated. The economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our properties in California, Florida, and Texas accounted for 32.6%, 14.3%, and 13.4%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income. Our revenues and cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in California, Florida, and Texas relative to other geographic areas. Loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Kroger, Publix and Safeway which are our three largest anchor tenants and accounted for 4.4%, 4.4%, and 3.8%, respectively, of our annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis for the year ended December 31, 2010. Distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: • becomes bankrupt or insolvent; • experiences a downturn in its business; • materially defaults on its leases; • does not renew its leases as they expire; or • renews at lower rental rates. Vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s customer drawing power. Most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. If major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. Our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our tenants. Our net income could be adversely affected if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments or in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any anchors or of a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center. The adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. Co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant the opportunity to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. At any point in time, we generally have one or more tenants in bankruptcy. A tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may not continue to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or its property, unless the bankruptcy court permits us to do so. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds, if at all. Downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. Our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. Our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: • weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and increased store closings; • consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States; • adverse financial conditions for large retail companies; • the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; • the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; • reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; • the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; • changes in taxation and zoning laws; • adverse government regulation; • a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to Internet retailers and catalogs; • the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by Wal-Mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and • the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. Our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such an evaluation is warranted. In addition, we perform an annual review, generally during the fourth quarter, to re-evaluate market-based capitalization rates and estimated holding periods. If we determine that the carrying amount of a property is not recoverable, we write down the asset to fair value. If as a result of a change in our strategy for a specific property which we own directly or through our co-investment partnerships, a property previously classified as held and used is changed to held for sale, or if its estimated holding period changes, such change could cause us to determine that the 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements property is impaired and a provision for impairment in relation to that property would be recorded by us either directly or through a reduction of our equity in income of real estate partnerships. A property’s value is impaired only if our estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. If the aggregate future cash flows are less than the carrying value of property, we write down the property to its fair value. In our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. These subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. Adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. We are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. The return of adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. During these adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in the value thereof. No assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. Our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities will have a direct impact on our revenues and our revenue growth. We actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. Development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. We may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. We incur other risks associated with development activities, including: • the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; • the risk that anchor tenants will not open and operate in accordance with their lease agreement; • the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties; • the risk that the current size in our development pipeline will strain the organization’s capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; • the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; • the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; • delays in the development and construction process; • the lack of cash flow during the construction period; and • the lack of development activity could reduce the capitalization of direct costs incurred for the purpose of development resulting in higher general and administrative costs. If our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development activities, our revenue growth may be adversely impacted. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. We derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to lease our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or develop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new properties until they are fully leased. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the current economic environment. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The SEC may decide in 2011 that issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. If the SEC decides to require IFRS, U.S. issuers may report under the new standards beginning as early as 2015. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. In certain cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised rule retroactively or apply existing rules differently which may adversely impact our results of operations or result in our recasting prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. The adoption of new lease accounting rules may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has proposed new accounting rules which could result in significant changes in the way leases are reported in our financial statements under GAAP. The proposal, if adopted, could have a significant effect on our balance sheet. FASB may issue final rules on this topic in 2011. At this time, we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of this proposal will have on our financial condition, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. We believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry standards. There are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. In addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. However, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our performance and our Parent Company’s stock price. We depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect performance and our Parent Company’s stock price. We face competition from numerous sources. The ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by REIT’s. We face competition from other REIT’s as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. We compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. We compete for the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. We seek to maximize rents per square foot by (i) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and (ii) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. We compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. There can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants. These entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. If we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. Costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (UST’s). The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stock and unit holders. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stock and unit holders. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. Risk Factors Related to Our Co-investment Partnerships and Acquisition Structure We do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. We have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. We do not have voting control over the ventures. The other co-venturer might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. The other co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. Our co-investment partnerships are an important part of our growth strategy. The termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stock and unit holders. Our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. If co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. In addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. Property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. Without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected. Our co-investment partnerships have $2.1 billion of debt as of December 31, 2010, of which 35.0% will mature through 2012, which is subject to significant refinancing risks. We anticipate that as real estate values decline, the refinancing of maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. The long-term impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. Our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. We invest in retail shopping centers through the Operating Partnership in which the Parent Company currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding common partnership units. From time to time, we have acquired properties through the Operating Partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. This acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property for cash. Properties contributed to the Operating Partnership may have unrealized gains attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. As a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. Generally, the Operating Partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. However, the Operating Partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. These restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. Risk Factors Related to Our Capital Recycling and Capital Structure Higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. As part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. We also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. These sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. An increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. In order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. Our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. We do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. Either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. In addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. Furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: • leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development, or other general corporate purposes; 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stock and unit holders. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. Our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and revolving credit facility contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and coverage ratios. Coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. Our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. These covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including the covenants above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. Many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. We depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. To qualify as a REIT, the Parent Company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). Because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. In addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. Additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. Settlement provisions contained in forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. On December 9, 2009, we entered into two forward sale agreements (the “Agreements”) with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “Forward Purchasers”). At the date of the Agreements, the Forward Purchasers borrowed 8 million shares from unrelated parties and sold those shares into the open market. In March 2011, we expect to settle the Agreements by issuing 8 million shares of Regency Centers Corporation common stock to the Forward Purchasers, unless we elect to settle in cash, or we agree to extend the Agreements with the Forward Purchasers. Settling the Agreements by issuing shares to the Forward Purchasers will result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity. If we elect to settle all or a portion of the 8 million shares of common stock included in the Agreements in cash, then we would expect the Forward Purchasers to repurchase our common stock in the open market to cover their obligation to return the shares of common stock that they borrowed in connection with the Agreements. If the market value of our common stock at the time of their repurchase is above the forward price, we would pay the Forward Purchasers an amount in cash equal to the difference. Thus, we would potentially be responsible for a substantial cash payment if our stock price were to rise substantially above the forward sale price on the date 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we elect to settle in cash. In addition, the repurchase of our common stock by the Forward Purchasers to unwind any hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase, thereby increasing the amount of cash we would owe to the Forward Purchasers upon a cash settlement of the Agreements. The Agreements provide the Forward Purchasers the right to require us to settle in common shares by a specific date upon the occurrence of certain events, irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. In such a case, we would be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the Agreements, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity. In addition, upon certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization relating to us, the Agreements would terminate without further liability of either party, and we would not issue any shares, nor would we receive any proceeds pursuant to the Agreements. Risk Factors Related to Interest Rates and the Market for Our Stock We may be forced to deleverage our business with our operating cash flows, which could result in the reduction of distributions to our stock and unit holders, a reduction in investments into our business or additional equity offerings that dilute our stock and unit holders’ interests. We depend on external financing, principally debt financing, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. Without access to external financing, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due. If we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. We and our joint ventures have a significant amount of debt maturing in 2011 and 2012. During this time period, we have $402.0 million maturing and our joint ventures have $741.5 million maturing (our pro-rata share is $284.6 million). In addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are refinancing. Increased market interest rates could reduce the Parent Company’s stock price. The annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. An increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. A decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. Selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REIT’s; • the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; • any future issuances of equity securities; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. It is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. Risk Factors Related to Federal Income Tax Laws If the Parent Company fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. We believe that we qualify for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. If we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. We are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. The fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. While we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not contend otherwise. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including Regency Realty Group, Inc. (“RRG”), our taxable REIT subsidiary, is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. Several provisions of the laws applicable to REIT’s and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, a REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for dividends to our stockholders. A REIT may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the REIT’s total assets or the securities owned by the REIT represent more than 10% of the issuer’s outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. An exception to these tests allows a REIT to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a “taxable REIT subsidiary.” We are not able to own securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of our total assets. We currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of RRG. Risk Factors Related to Our Ownership Limitations and the Florida Business Corporation Act Restrictions on the ownership of the Parent Company’s capital stock to preserve our REIT status could delay or prevent a change in control. Ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a REIT, with certain exceptions. This 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. The issuance of the Parent Company’s capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ interest. The provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P. have received no written comments regarding their periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding December 31, 2010 that remain unresolved. 