ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have listed below various risks and uncertainties relating to our businesses. This list is not inclusive of all the risks and uncertainties we face, but any of these could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or that we may issue from time to time in the future. THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF OUR RECENT FORMATION OF THE JOINT VENTURE, CCP, MAY NOT BE REALIZED During the first quarter of 2007, we completed the formation of a joint venture (CCP) with International Truck and Engine Corporation (ITEC) for the purpose of manufacturing diesel chassis. The process of establishing the operations of the joint venture may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require a significant amount of management’s attention that would otherwise be focused on the ongoing development of our business. The anticipated advantages of the joint venture, which are purchasing synergies, access to engineering and design expertise from ITEC, and improvement of the utilization of our Roadmaster chassis manufacturing facility in Elkhart, Indiana, may not be realized. THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF OUR ACQUISITION OF R-VISION AND AFFILIATES MAY NOT BE REALIZED On November 18, 2005 we acquired Indiana-based towable and motorhome manufacturer R-Vision, Inc., R-Vision Motorized, LLC, Bison Manufacturing, LLC, and Roadmaster, LLC (collectively “R-Vision”). The process of integrating R-Vision into our company operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. This may cause an interruption or a loss of momentum in our operating activities, which in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the acquisition involves a number of additional risks, such as the loss of key employees of R-Vision as a result of the acquisition, the incorporation of acquired products into our existing product line, and the difficulty of integrating disparate corporate cultures. Accordingly, the anticipated benefits may not be realized or the acquisition may have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. WE MAY EXPERIENCE UNANTICIPATED FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS FOR A VARIETY OF REASONS Our net sales, gross margin, and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are not readily predictable. These factors include the following: · The varying margins associated with the mix of products we sell in any particular period. · The fact that we typically ship a large amount of products near quarter end. · Our ability to utilize and expand our manufacturing resources efficiently. · Shortages of materials used in our products. · The effects of inflation on the costs of materials used in our products. · A determination by us that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired and have to be written down to their fair values, resulting in a charge to our results of operations. · Our ability to introduce new models that achieve consumer acceptance. · The introduction, marketing and sale of competing products by others, including significant discounting offered by our competitors. · The addition or loss of our dealers. · The timing of trade shows and rallies, which we use to market and sell our products. · Factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry as a whole, including economic and seasonal factors. · Our inability to acquire and develop key pieces of property for on-going resort activity. · Fluctuations in demand for our resort lots due to changing economic and other conditions. Our overall gross margin may decline in future periods to the extent that we increase the percent of sales of lower gross margin towable products or if the mix of motor coaches we sell shifts to lower gross margin units. In addition, a relatively small variation in the number of recreational vehicles we sell in any quarter can have a significant impact on total sales and operating results for that quarter. 11 Demand in the recreational vehicle industry generally declines during the winter months, while sales are generally higher during the spring and summer months. With the broader range of products we now offer, seasonal factors could have a significant impact on our operating results in the future. Additionally, unusually severe weather conditions in certain markets could delay the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. We attempt to forecast orders for our products accurately and commence purchasing and manufacturing prior to receipt of such orders. However, it is highly unlikely that we will consistently be able to accurately forecast the timing, rate, and mix of orders. This aspect of our business makes our planning inexact and, in turn, affects our shipments, costs, inventories, operating results, and cash flow for any given quarter. OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS ARE CYCLICAL AND SUSCEPTIBLE TO SLOWDOWNS IN THE GENERAL ECONOMY The recreational vehicle industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic, demographic, and political conditions that affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Our business is particularly influenced by cycle swings in the class A market. While there has been strong secular demand for recreational vehicles since the early 90’s it has been driven by demand for towable recreational products. Since 2004, there has been a notable divergence in growth rates between towable and motorized recreational vehicles. Class A unit shipments peaked at approximately 37,300 units in 1994 and declined to approximately 33,000 units in 1995. The class A segment then went on a steady climb and in 1999 recorded the highest year, in recent history, of class A shipments, approximately 49,400. Over the next two years motorhome shipments declined to 33,400 in 2001. Class A shipments then rose for the next three years and in 2004 reached, 46,300. Over the last three years, however, shipments of class A motorhomes have dropped reaching pre-1994 levels of 32,900 in 2007. The towable segment moved through many of the same cyclical peaks and troughs historically. The shipment level peaked in 1994 at 201,100 dropping-off to 192,200 in 1996 and then growing to 249,600 in 1999. Towable unit shipments suffered a two-year drop-off like class A motorhomes in 2000 and 2001, dropping to 207,600. Since then, the market has expanded significantly reaching 334,600 in 2006, but falling in 2007 to 297,900. Unlike the class A market, the towables segment did not experience a slow down in 2005 and 2006, because manufacturers have successfully introduced popular new models and the segment was significantly aided by units sold to support the hurricane relief efforts in the gulf coast. The decline in 2007 reflects consumers’ uneasiness surrounding the economy, fuel prices and declining real estate values. Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of the RV industry and principally the class A segment. Some of the factors that contribute to this cyclicality include fuel availability and costs, interest rate levels, the level of discretionary spending, and availability of credit and overall consumer confidence. Increasing interest rates and fuel prices over the last three years have adversely affected the class A recreational vehicle market. An extended continuation of these conditions would materially affect the results of our operations and financial condition. Our recreational vehicle resort properties are also impacted by the overall recreational vehicle industry. In addition, our real estate investments in the resort properties are the subject to the impacts of lending challenges and general market declines in the real estate market. As a result, we may experience delays in developing and selling our resorts. These delays may result in losses that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. WE RELY ON A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF DEALERS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR SALES Although our products were offered by over 700 dealerships located primarily in the United States and Canada as of December 29, 2007, a significant percentage of our sales are concentrated among a relatively small number of independent dealers. For fiscal years 2006 and 2007, sales to one dealer, Lazy Days RV Center, accounted for 8.5% and 9.1%, respectively, of total sales. For fiscal years 2006 and 2007, sales to our 10 largest dealers, including Lazy Days RV Center, accounted for a total of 33.2% and 33.1% of total sales, respectively. The loss of a significant dealer or a substantial decrease in sales by any of these dealers could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. WE MAY HAVE TO REPURCHASE A DEALER’S INVENTORY OF OUR PRODUCTS IN THE EVENT THAT THE DEALER DOES NOT REPAY ITS LENDER As is common in the recreational vehicle industry, we enter into repurchase agreements with the financing institutions used by our dealers to finance their purchases of our products. These agreements require us to repurchase the dealer’s inventory in the event that the dealer defaults on its credit facility with its lender. Obligations under these agreements vary from period to period, but totaled approximately $518.6 million as of December 29, 2007, with approximately 3.9% concentrated with one dealer. If we were obligated to repurchase a significant number of units under any repurchase agreement, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 12 OUR ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE BALANCE IS SUBJECT TO RISK We sell our product to dealers who are predominantly located in the United States and Canada. The terms and conditions of payment are a combination of open trade receivables and commitments from dealer floor plan lending institutions. For our RV dealers, terms are net 30 days for units that are financed by a third party lender. Terms of open trade receivables are granted by us, on a very limited basis, to dealers who have been subjected to evaluative credit processes conducted by us. For open receivables, terms vary from net 30 days to net 180 days, depending on the specific agreement. Agreements for payment terms beyond 30 days generally require additional collateral, as well as security interest in the inventory sold. As of December 29, 2007, total trade receivables were $88.2 million, with approximately $70.5 million, or 80.0% of the outstanding accounts receivable balance concentrated among floor plan lenders. The remaining $17.7 million of trade receivables were concentrated substantially with one dealer. For resort lot customers, funds are required at the time of closing. WE MAY EXPERIENCE A DECREASE IN SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS DUE TO AN INCREASE IN THE PRICE OR A DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF FUEL An interruption in the supply, or a significant increase in the price or tax on the sale, of diesel fuel or gasoline on a regional or national basis could significantly affect our business. Diesel fuel and gasoline have, at various times in the past, been either expensive or difficult to obtain. WE DEPEND ON SINGLE OR LIMITED SOURCES TO PROVIDE US WITH CERTAIN IMPORTANT COMPONENTS THAT WE USE IN THE PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS A number of important components for our products are purchased from a single or a limited number of sources. These include turbo diesel engines (Cummins and Caterpillar), substantially all of our transmissions (Allison), axles (Dana) for all diesel motor coaches, and chassis (Workhorse and Ford) for gas motor coaches. We have no long-term supply contracts with these suppliers or their distributors, and we cannot be certain that these suppliers will be able to meet our future requirements. Consequently, the Company has periodically been placed on allocation of these and other key components. The last significant allocation occurred in 1997 from Allison, and in 1999 from Ford. An extended delay or interruption in the supply of any components that we obtain from a single supplier or from a limited number of suppliers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. OUR INDUSTRY IS VERY COMPETITIVE. WE MUST CONTINUE TO INTRODUCE NEW MODELS AND NEW FEATURES TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE The market for our products is very competitive. We currently compete with a number of manufacturers of motor coaches, fifth wheel trailers, and travel trailers. Some of these companies have greater financial resources than we have and extensive distribution networks. These companies, or new competitors in the industry, may develop products that customers in the industry prefer over our products. We believe that the introduction of new products and new features is critical to our success. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, quality problems associated with these introductions, or a lack of market acceptance of new models or features could affect us adversely. For example, unexpected costs associated with model changes have affected our gross margin in the past. Further, new product introductions can divert revenues from existing models and result in fewer sales of existing products. OUR PRODUCTS COULD FAIL TO PERFORM ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS OR PROVE TO BE UNRELIABLE, CAUSING DAMAGE TO OUR CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND OUR REPUTATION AND RESULTING IN LOSS OF SALES Our customers require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because our products are complex and often use advanced components, processes and techniques, undetected errors and design flaws may occur. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs and may cause serious damage to our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which would negatively affect our sales and business. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO VARIOUS TYPES OF LITIGATION, INCLUDING PRODUCT LIABILITY AND WARRANTY CLAIMS We are subject to litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business, typically for product liability and warranty claims that are common in the recreational vehicle industry. While we do not believe that the outcome of any pending litigation, net of insurance coverage, will materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, we cannot provide assurances in this regard because litigation is an inherently uncertain process.* To date, we have been successful in obtaining product liability insurance on terms that we consider acceptable. The terms of the policy contain a self-insured retention amount of $500,000 per occurrence, with a maximum annual aggregate self-insured retention of $3.0 million. Overall product liability insurance, including umbrella coverage, is available to a maximum amount of $100.0 million for each occurrence, as well as in the aggregate. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at acceptable levels or that the costs of such insurance will be reasonable. Further, successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of a series of claims exceeding our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 13 IN ORDER TO BE SUCCESSFUL, WE MUST ATTRACT, RETAIN AND MOTIVATE MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND OTHER KEY EMPLOYEES, AND OUR FAILURE TO DO SO COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company’s future prospects depend upon retaining and motivating key management personnel, including Kay L. Toolson, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John W. Nepute, the Company’s President. The loss of one or more of these key management personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The prospects of the Company also depend in part on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineers and other qualified technical, manufacturing, financial, managerial, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. WE MAY EXPERIENCE UNEXPECTED PROBLEMS AND EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH OUR MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT AUTOMATION PLAN As we continue to work towards involving automated machinery and equipment to improve efficiencies and quality, we will be subject to certain risks involving implementing new technologies into our facilities. The expansion into new machinery and equipment technologies involves risks, including the following: · We must rely on timely performance by contractors, subcontractors, and government agencies, whose performance we may be unable to control. · The development of new processes involves costs associated with new machinery, training of employees, and compliance with environmental, health, and other government regulations. · The newly developed products may not be successful in the marketplace. · We may be unable to complete a planned machinery and equipment implementation in a timely manner, which could result in lower production levels and an inability to satisfy customer demand for our products. WE MAY EXPERIENCE UNEXPECTED PROBLEMS AND EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH OUR ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SYSTEM (ERP) IMPLEMENTATION During 2006, we began to implement a new ERP system and will be subject to certain risks including the following: · We must rely on timely performance by contractors whose performance we may be unable to control. · The implementation could result in significant and unexpected increases in our operating expenses and capital expenditures, particularly if the project takes longer than we expect. · The project could complicate and prolong our internal data gathering and analysis processes. · We may need to restructure or develop our internal processes to adapt to the new system. · We could require extended work hours from our employees and use temporary outside resources, resulting in increased expenses, to resolve any software configuration issues or to process transactions manually until issues are resolved. · As management focuses attention on the implementation, they could be diverted from other issues. · The project could disrupt our operations if the transition to the ERP system creates new or unexpected difficulties or if the system does not perform as expected. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS HISTORICALLY FLUCTUATED AND MAY CONTINUE TO FLUCTUATE The market price of our Common Stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the recreational vehicle market, and other events or factors. In addition, the stocks of many recreational vehicle companies have experienced price and volume fluctuations which have not necessarily been directly related to the companies’ operating performance, and the market price of our Common Stock could experience similar fluctuations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 14 ITEM 