Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisk Factors Related to Our Industry and Real Estate InvestmentsA shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet sales may have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow.Many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made Internet sales a vital piece of their business. Although many of the retailers in our shopping centers either provide services or sell groceries, such that their customer base does not have a tendency toward online shopping, the shift to internet sales may adversely impact our retail tenants' sales causing those retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future. This shift could adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. Downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow.Our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. Our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space could be adversely affected by any of the following:•Weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings;•Adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors;•Continued consolidation in the retail sector;•Excess amount of retail space in our markets;•Reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories;•The growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by Wal-Mart and Costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains;•The impact of changing energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on retail spending; and•Consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders.Our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected if economic or market conditions deteriorate where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties.The economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our properties in California, Florida, and Texas accounted for 30.6%, 11.3%, and 10.0%, respectively, of our net operating income from Consolidated Properties plus our pro-rata share from Unconsolidated Properties ("pro-rata basis"). Our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in California, Florida, or Texas relative to other geographic areas.Our success depends on the success and continued presence of our “anchor” tenants.Anchor tenants occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Kroger, Publix, and Safeway, who accounted for 4.5%, 3.8%, and 2.3%, respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our net income could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant:•Becomes bankrupt or insolvent;•Experiences a downturn in its business;•Materially defaults on its leases;•Does not renew its leases as they expire; or•Renews at lower rental rates. 4Some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. Vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. If a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. Co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful.A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). Smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. Such tenants continue to face increasing competition from non-store retailers and growing e-commerce. In addition, some of these retailers may seek to reduce their store sizes as they increasingly rely on alternative distribution channels, including internet sales, and adjust their square footage needs accordingly. The types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. If we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted.We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy.Although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. Our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. Through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. Our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. These key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. Changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the Company's financial condition or operating performance. To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. The fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. Such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to management judgment. Changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. In estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. These subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our net income in the period in which the charge is taken. Adverse global market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance.We are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. Adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. During adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. No 5assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. Our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock.Unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues, revenue growth, and/or net income.We actively pursue development opportunities. Development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. We may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. We incur other risks associated with development activities, including:•The risk that we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis;•The risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable;•The risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable;•The risk that delays in the development and construction process could increase costs; •The risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in such opportunities;•The risk that the size of our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; •Changes in the level of future development and redevelopment activity could have an adverse impact on operating results by reducing the amount of capitalizable internal costs for development projects; and•The lack of cash flow during the construction period.Our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect.Our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. The acquisition of properties and/or companies entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: •Properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected;•Our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property;•Our investigation of a company, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the acquisition or increase our acquisition costs;•Our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; •We may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition;•Our acquisition activities may distract our management and generate significant costs; and•We may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully.We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. We derive most of our revenue from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. 6We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. Geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results.A significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 23.6%, 15.0%, and 10.5% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in California, Florida, and Texas, respectively. Intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. We recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events may continue to increase due to climate change, and as a result, our exposure to these events could increase. These weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. Therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. Should we decide in the future to expand into new markets, we may not be successful, which could adversely affect ourfinancial condition, results of operations and cash flows.If opportunities arise, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets. Each of the risks applicable to ourability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable in new markets. Inaddition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of the new markets we mayenter, which could adversely affect the results of our expansion into those markets, and we may be unable to achieve our desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties.We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. We believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. There are, however, some types of losses, such as losses from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, for which the insurance levels carried may not be sufficient to fully cover catastrophic losses impacting multiple properties. In addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. However, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business and operations.We depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and operations. 7We face competition from numerous sources, including other REITs and other real estate owners.The ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. We face competition from other REITs and well capitalized institutional investors, as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. We also compete to develop shopping centers with other REITs engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. This competition may:•reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development;•increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development;•hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and•adversely affect our ability to minimize our expenses of operation.If we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected.Costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders.Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. Any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders.Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures.All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders.If we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial costs and become subject to litigation.We have implemented an online payment system where we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require us to expend significant resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business and disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any 8material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Risk Factors Related to Our Co-investment Partnerships and Acquisition StructureWe do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued.We have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project as we do not have voting control over the ventures, although we do have approval rights over major decisions. The other partner may (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. The other partner also may become insolvent or bankrupt. These factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates.The termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders.If co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders.Risk Factors Related to Funding Strategies and Capital StructureHigher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings.As part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. These sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments and acquisitions. An increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. In order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings.We depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all.To qualify as a REIT, the Parent Company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. In addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. In addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. Additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. Without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. Our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. If we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. 9Our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. If we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage.Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition.Our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. Fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. Our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. These covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. Many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock.Increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. Although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. In addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates. This would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets.We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange forpartnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. This acquisition structure may havethe effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquiredproperties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain throughrestrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors tomaintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorableabsent such restrictions.Hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge willnot yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which could adversely affect us.From time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements thatinvolve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that thesearrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. There can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. Should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. 10Risk Factors Related to the Market Price for Our Debt and Equity SecuritiesChanges in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our securities.The market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: •Actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; •Changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; •Publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REIT's; •The ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; •Increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; •Changes in market valuations of similar companies; •Adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; •Any future issuances of equity securities; •Additions or departures of key management personnel; •Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •Actions by institutional stockholders; •Changes in our dividend payments;•Speculation in the press or investment community; and•General market and economic conditions.These factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. It is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. A decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. Selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders.We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates.Our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: •Our financial condition and results of future operations; •The terms of our loan covenants; and •Our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results.The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), in conjunction with the SEC, has several key projects on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the International Accounting Standards Board. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on the presentation of our consolidated financial statements, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. Risk Factors Related to Federal Income Tax LawsIf the Parent Company fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.We believe that the Parent Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. If the Parent Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. Many REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that the Parent Company is a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which 11involve questions of interpretation. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. We are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. The fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the Parent Company to remain qualified as a REIT.Also, unless the IRS granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the Parent Company would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. If the Parent Company failed to qualify as a REIT (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. Although we believe that the Parent Company qualifies as a REIT, we cannot assure you that the Parent Company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.Even if the Parent Company qualifies as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. While we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not contend otherwise. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. Subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "C" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the shares of our capital stock.Foreign stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" REIT.A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. This tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is "domestically controlled." In general, we will be a domestically controlled REIT if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder’s disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons. If we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into either to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain (or any property which generates such income or gain) that constitutes “qualifying income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs, does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the Code and Treasury Regulations. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS. The use of a TRS could increase the cost of our hedging activities (because our TRS would be subject to tax on income or gain resulting from hedges entered into by it) or expose us to greater risks than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, net losses in a TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in the TRS. 12Risk Factors Related to Our Ownership Limitations and the Florida Business Corporation ActRestrictions on the ownership of the Parent Company's capital stock to preserve its REIT status could delay or prevent a change in control.Ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the Parent Company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a REIT. This 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control.The issuance of the Parent Company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control.The Parent Company's articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13