Item 1A. Risk Factors Potential Sale of the Company For additional information with respect to the potential Merger with Talbots, see “Item 1. Business.” A significant delay in consummating or a failure to consummate the proposed Merger with Talbots could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and operating results. If the proposed Merger with Talbots is not completed, it could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, any significant delay in consummating the Merger could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, adversely affect our vendor and customer relationships and would likely lead to significant diversion of management and employee attention and potential employee attrition. Expenses related to the proposed Merger with Talbots are significant and will adversely affect our operating results in 2006. We have incurred and expect to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed Merger with Talbots, including legal and investment banker fees and retention bonus expenses. We expect these costs to have an adverse effect on our operating results in 2006. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the proposed Merger with Talbots may have a negative impact on our operating results. We have agreed to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business in connection with the proposed Merger with Talbots, that require us to conduct our business only in the ordinary course, subject to specific limitations. These restrictions may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the transaction. Our future success depends on our ability to produce a merchandise assortment that resonates with our target customer. Over the past two years we have been in a merchandising transition and during this time we endeavored to broaden the appeal of the J. Jill brand by standardizing our fits, improving the quality of our apparel, increasing the penetration of color and novelty in our assortment and becoming more contemporary in our design elements. While we believe we have achieved success with respect to improving the quality and fit of our apparel, some of the changes we made with respect to color, novelty and silhouette negatively impacted our performance over the past two years. At the same time, the merchandise changes we made did not attract the number of new customers we expected them to. We are taking several steps in the merchandising and design areas to modify our strategy and adjust our merchandise offerings, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to produce a merchandise assortment that resonates with our target customer. Our ability to increase our overall profitability will depend upon our ability to successfully grow our retail business while, at the same time, stabilizing and improving our direct segment’s performance. Our current growth strategy is based primarily on our retail store initiative. During fiscal 2005 we opened 42 retail stores and we expect to continue our retail segment growth by opening an additional 40 retail stores in 2006. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to manage this growth effectively, and if we are unsuccessful in doing so, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, during the past two years our direct segment performance has declined primarily as a result of poor customer response to our merchandise offerings and cannibalization from our retail stores. Although we are taking steps to stabilize and improve the direct segment’s performance, there can be no assurance that our direct business will not continue to be negatively affected as our retail business grows or 9 that the steps we are taking to stabilize and improve the direct segment’s performance will result in increased direct segment sales and profitability. Our future success will depend upon our ability to build brand awareness and the effectiveness of our brand development and marketing programs. Our future success will depend upon our ability to effectively define, evolve and promote the J. Jill brand. In fiscal 2005, we made significant investments in the area of brand development and marketing. We hired a branding agency to assist us with market positioning and establishing specific brand-enhancing opportunities for J. Jill. We also hired a new Chief Marketing Officer. While we believe that our investments in this area will help to build brand awareness and attract new customers, we can provide no assurance that these investments will result in increased sales or profitability in the future. Our overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes us vulnerable to a number of risks. We purchase a significant portion of our merchandise directly from foreign sources. Approximately 86% of the merchandise we purchased in fiscal 2005 was purchased directly from foreign sources, primarily located in China. Any event causing a disruption in manufacturing or imports from the countries from which we currently source goods, or the imposition of additional import restrictions (particularly with respect to China), could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We seek to enforce a code of conduct that sets guidelines for our vendors regarding employment practices such as wages and benefits, health and safety, working hours and working age, and for environmental, ethical and legal matters. Although we believe we are allocating appropriate resources to monitor for compliance with our standards, if we or an outside third party discovers that any of our vendors is engaged in practices that materially violate our vendor code of conduct or other generally accepted social responsibility standards, our sales could be materially affected by any resulting negative publicity. The loss of either of our two primary buying agents could disrupt our operations. We place significant reliance on our relationship with two foreign buying agents. We believe that this concentration risk is mitigated by the fact that these buying agents purchase our inventory directly from a variety of foreign vendors. During fiscal 2005, we did not purchase more than 10% of our inventory directly from any one vendor. However, we did purchase approximately 80% of our imported inventory through these two buying agents during fiscal 2005. Although we could purchase inventory through alternative buying agents or directly from vendors, loss of these buying agents could disrupt our operations. The women’s apparel market is highly competitive. We are in a highly competitive market. The perceived growth opportunities within the women’s apparel market has encouraged the entry of many new competitors, including a few large, well known and established specialty retailers, as well as increased competition from existing competitors. Many of our competitors are considerably larger and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future. Our success depends on our ability to respond to changes in customer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner. We have historically experienced fluctuations in customer response to our merchandise assortments. Our future success depends on our ability to consistently anticipate, assess and react to the changing demands of our customer. If we fail to anticipate fashion trends, select the right merchandise assortment, 10 maintain appropriate inventory levels and creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to our customer on a consistent basis, our sales could decline significantly, and we could then be required to mark down certain merchandise to significantly lower prices to sell excess inventory, which would result in lower gross margins. As a private label merchandiser, we assume certain risks, including long product lead times and high initial purchase commitments, that amplify the consequences of any miscalculation that we might make in anticipating fashion trends or interpreting them for our customer. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and offer merchandise that appeals to our customer. Our direct business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The operation of our direct business presents a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: · The preparation of our catalogs requires long lead times and, as a result, our ability to make adjustments based on customer response is limited. Any miscalculations in catalog layout, model selection, copy format or merchandising selections could cause reduced demand and lower net sales; · Each edition of a catalog requires substantial investments in layout and design, paper, printing, postage and inventory prior to mailing which are all costs that cannot be adjusted for a particular mailing in response to the actual performance of the catalog; · The operation of our direct business is dependent on our ability to prepare catalogs in a timely manner. Any delay in the completion or delivery of a catalog could cause customers to forego or defer purchases from us; · Some of our catalog marketing programs rely on prospect mailings and as a result involve risks not present in mailings to our existing customers, including potentially lower and less predictable response rates and the possibility that third parties who provide customer lists may stop making them available; and · The operation of our direct business is dependent on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our order taking and fulfillment operations and our website. Disruptions or slowdowns in these areas could result in a reduction in net sales as well as increased administrative and order processing costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address the risks that the operation of our direct business entails. Our retail business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The operation of retail stores presents a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: · We are required to make long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations; · We make substantial investments in store design, leasehold improvements and other areas prior to the opening of each store, and thereafter, we must continue to maintain our store facilities; · Our retail store assets and personnel are substantially under the control of individual store management. We rely on our store managers to ensure that our assets are secure, our store employees are properly trained and managed and our stores are operating effectively. If we are unable to effectively manage our retail stores, our sales could decline and our assets could be inadequately safeguarded; and · The success of our individual stores may depend significantly on the success of the shopping malls or lifestyle centers in which they are located. 11 There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address the risks that the operation of retail stores entails. Our sales tax collection policy may expose us to certain risks. Prior to the merger of our retail subsidiary and our catalog/internet subsidiary in July 2003, our catalog/internet subsidiary collected sales tax on our catalog and internet sales only in Massachusetts. Since the time of the merger, we have been collecting sales tax on our catalog and internet sales in states where we have stores. Many states have attempted to require that out-of-state direct marketers and internet retailers collect sales taxes on sales of products shipped to their residents, but the legality of the imposition of such taxes is unsettled. Although we believe that we have collected sales tax where we are required to do so under existing law, state tax authorities may disagree. Our operating results fluctuate. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and we expect these fluctuations to continue. Among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are customer response to merchandise offerings, the timing of the rollout of our new retail stores, seasonal variations in sales, the timing and size of catalog mailings, the costs of producing and mailing catalogs, the timing of merchandise receipts, the level of merchandise returns, changes in merchandise mix and presentation, and unanticipated operating costs and other factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. Our current expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future net sales and, as a result, net income for a given period could be disproportionately affected by any reduction in net sales for that period. In addition, our retail store business is more seasonal than our direct business. As a result of all of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 