ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors (Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by EMAK or its representatives in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other filings or reports filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and may include, but are not limited to, statements about: sales and inventory levels; competition; initiatives to promote revenue growth; globalization initiatives; restructuring and financial realignment plans; special charges and other non-recurring charges; initiatives aimed at anticipated cost savings; initiatives to enhance innovation, improve the execution of the core business, leverage scale and enter new categories, develop people, improve productivity, simplify processes and maintain client service levels; quality control and safety testing; potential impact of product recalls; supply chain operations; import and export licenses; integration of acquired companies and assets; operating efficiencies; capital framework; tax provisions; cost pressures and increases; profitability and the impact of recent organizational changes. EMAK is including this Cautionary Statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “continue,” “plans,” “aims,” “intends,” “likely,” or other similar words or phrases. Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other statements or filings made by EMAK from time-to-time may be forward-looking statements. Management cautions you that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. In addition to the important factors detailed herein and from time-to-time in other reports filed by EMAK with the SEC, including Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, the following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from past results or those suggested by any forward-looking statements. We Depend Significantly on One Key Customer Our success is partly dependent on a single customer, Burger King (including its franchise purchasing cooperative Restaurant Services, Inc. (“RSI”) and various distribution companies), which accounted for approximately 52%, 48% and 47% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. The termination or a significant reduction by Burger King of its business with us would adversely affect our business. The Burger King business is subject to significant year-to-year variability, and over recent periods has materially declined. The revenues generated by our business with Burger King decreased from $117,257 in 2005 to $87,865 in 2006 and $76,528 in 2007. Due to this volatility, the profitability of our business with Burger King is dependent on our ability to control related costs, many of which are fixed and cannot be reduced in response to decreases in the level of business. The success of our business with Burger King is also partially dependent on the overall success of the Burger 8 King restaurant system, whose sales could be negatively impacted by such factors as increased competition and product recalls. A continued reduction in our revenues from Burger King, if material, would adversely affect our business. We Depend onKey Employees We depend on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of a key employee could hurt our business, particularly in the case of key employees who hold strategic relationships with our clients. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect our results. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. We Face Credit Risk We regularly extend credit to distribution companies in connection with our business with the Burger King system, which includes Supply Chain Services, LLC (“SCS”), which is a subsidiary of RSI. Sales to SCS represented 81.5% of our product sales to the Burger King System in 2007. Failure by SCS to honor their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Because of SCS’s established credit history with us, we do not believe that the concentration of receivables has a negative impact to our overall credit risk. We occasionally provide SCS with extended payment terms of up to 60 days. We also extend credit to several retailers in connection with various promotional programs as well as with our Consumer Products business. The mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Failure by one or more of these retailers to honor their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We Rely on the Continued Development of New Promotional Programs A large portion of our revenues come from a relatively limited number of promotional programs which are in effect for only a limited period of time and generally are not repeated. We must continually develop and sell new products and services for utilization in new promotional programs as part of our clients’ annual promotions calendars. There can be no assurance that we, or our customers, will be able to secure licenses for additional entertainment properties on which to base our promotional programs or that, if secured, such licenses will result in successful products. The Success of Our Products Depends on the Popularity of Licensed Materials Our promotional products are typically based on entertainment properties, such as characters from current motion pictures or television programs. The success of these products largely depends on the popularity of the entertainment properties on which they are based. Each motion picture and television program is an individual artistic work, and its commercial success is dependent on unpredictable consumer preferences. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if the entertainment properties upon which our products are based turn out to be less popular than we anticipate. Also, delays in the release of motion pictures or television programs could result in delays or cancellations of our promotions. Our Future Operating Results are Difficult to Predict We experience significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our revenues and net income (loss). The promotions business tends to include larger promotions in the summer and during the winter holiday season. Major movie and television release schedules also vary year-to-year, influencing the promotional schedules of our customers, as well as the particular promotions for which we are retained. The motion picture or television characters on which the promotions business is often based may only be popular for short periods of time or not at all. There may not be comparable popular characters or similar promotional campaigns in the future. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our Business is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and to Potential Product Liability Claims Our business is subject to the provisions of, among other laws, the Federal Consumer Products Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and rules and regulations promulgated under these acts. These statutes are administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”), which has the authority to remove from the market products that are found to be defective and present a substantial hazard or risk of serious injury or death. The CPSC can require a manufacturer to recall, repair, or replace these products under certain circumstances. We cannot assure that defects in our products will not be alleged or found. Products that we develop and sell may expose us to liability from claims by users of such products for damages including, but not limited to, bodily injury or property damage. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms in the future, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Products that we develop or sell may also expose us to liability for the costs related to product recalls. These costs can include legal expenses, advertising, 9 collection and destruction of product, and free goods. We currently maintain product recall coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate to defray costs and damages resulting from product recall. Our Markets Are Highly Competitive The markets in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. Our competitors, and in many cases their parent companies, include companies which have far more extensive sales and development staffs and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies. We Rely on Foreign Manufacturers During 2007, approximately 96% of our products were manufactured in China. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs, quotas and other import or export controls, and changes in governmental policies. In addition, past outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) have been significantly concentrated in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of our contract manufacturers are located. The development and manufacture of our products could suffer if a significant number of our employees in Hong Kong or the employees of our contract manufacturers in China contract SARS or other communicable diseases, or are otherwise unable to fulfill their responsibilities. We do not have long-term contracts with our foreign manufacturers. Although we believe we could secure other third-party manufacturers to produce our products, our operations could be adversely affected if we lost our relationship with several of our current foreign manufacturers. Virtually all of the raw materials used in our products are available to our contract manufacturers from numerous suppliers. Our manufacturers do not have long-term supply contracts in place with their raw materials suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to variations in the prices we pay to our manufacturers for products, depending on what they pay for their raw materials. An increase in the cost of raw materials, such as petroleum, could result in price increases that we may not be able to fully pass on to our customers. Any such increase could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Face Foreign Currency Risk As part of our business, we enter into contracts for the purchase and sale of products with entities in foreign countries. While the vast majority of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, significant fluctuations in the local currencies of the entities with which we transact business may adversely affect these entities’ abilities to fulfill their obligations under their contracts. Logistix (U.K.) enters into contracts denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, GBP and Euros. Although we attempt to reduce its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of certain hedging techniques, changes in such exchange rates may result in changes in the value of our commitments and anticipated foreign currency cash flows. We May Issue Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and may discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of Common Stock. The outstanding Series AA Stock is senior to any class of preferred stock that might be authorized by the Board of Directors in the future. The Market Price of Our Common Stock is Likely to Be Volatile Our stock price has fluctuated widely, ranging from $0.71 to $6.37 per share during 2007. Our stock price will likely continue to fluctuate in response to factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. We Are Exposed to Potential Risks and We Will Incur Costs as a Result of the Internal Control Assessment and Attestation Process Mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated, tested and implemented internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on such internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In connection with the filing of our annual report for 2008, we are currently required to provide an auditor attestation on internal controls. The additional testing and the auditor attestation could cause us to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and staffing levels. While we believe that we are compliant with the 10 management evaluation requirements of Section 404, if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance. We May Have Limited Ability to Fully Use Our Recorded Tax Loss Carryforwards We have accumulated approximately $10,499 of tax loss carryforwards to be used in future periods if we become profitable. If we were to experience a significant change in ownership, Internal Revenue Code Section 382 may restrict the future utilization of these tax loss carryforwards even if we become profitable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Inapplicable. 