ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We need to refinance our existing senior credit facility because it will mature by April 30, 2010 and because we will be in default under various covenants if we do not refinance it prior to July 31, 2009 We are in the process of seeking to refinance our senior secured credit facility, which will mature on April 28, 2010. In anticipation of the possibility that we would be required to record non-cash charges, including a goodwill impairment charge, in our financial statements for the year ended April 30, 2009, we sought and received a waiver on June 3, 2009 from our lenders of various covenants under this credit facility which we would have otherwise breached as a result of these non-cash charges. The waiver is only applicable to our April 30, 2009 financial statements and as a result we will be in default under the credit facility if we do not complete our refinancing prior to July 31, 2009. The waiver does not include a waiver of our financial covenant compliance for the quarter ended July 31, 2009, and accordingly, if we are unable to complete our refinancing by that date, it is likely we will be in default under our senior secured credit facility and would seek another waiver. We anticipate that the refinancing will be effected through a combination of a revolving credit facility, term loan B and secured bond or other offering, depending on market conditions. As we would not be able to repay our senior secured credit facility obligations in accordance with the contractual terms without either refinancing this debt or obtaining additional debt or equity, our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our fiscal year 2009 consolidated financial statements that includes an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Subject to the issuance of a revised audit opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm, we expect that this explanatory paragraph would be removed upon our successful refinancing. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the refinancing. Our outstanding indebtedness and borrowing costs may restrict our future operations and impact our ability to make future acquisitions. We have substantial indebtedness and expect our aggregate borrowing costs and indebtedness will increase as a result of the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility that we expect to close during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The payment of interest and principal due under our indebtedness will substantially reduce our net income and net cash flow from operations and will accordingly reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures. In addition, the aggregate amount of indebtedness has limited and will continue to limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, and thereby may limit our capital expenditures and place other restrictions and limitations on how we may operate our business, including the adoption of measures management considers to be in the best interests of our business. Covenants under any future debt agreements may be even more restrictive than those we are currently subject to. 26 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to make future business acquisitions, particularly those that would be financed solely or in part through cash from operations, will be curtailed due to our obligations to make payments or principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. We may not have sufficient capital resources, now or in the future, and may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to us, if at all, in order to meet our capital requirements for such acquisitions. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness, include covenants that restrict our ability to make acquisitions while this indebtedness remains outstanding. To the extent that the amount of our outstanding indebtedness continues to have a negative impact on our stock price, using our Class A common stock as consideration will be less attractive for potential acquisition candidates. In the past, the trading price of our Class A common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has limited our willingness to use our equity as consideration and the willingness of sellers to accept our shares and as a result has limited, and could continue to limit, the size and scope of our acquisition program. If we are unable to pursue acquisitions that would enhance our business or operations, the potential growth of our business and revenues may be adversely effected. Current economic conditions have adversely affected our revenues and our operating margin and may impact our efforts to pay our outstanding indebtedness. Our business has been affected by changes in economic conditions that are outside of our control, including reductions in business and consumer activity generally, and of construction spending in particular, which have significantly impacted the demand for our collection and landfill services, and declines in commodity prices, which have materially reduced our recycling revenues. As a result of the current economic environment we may also be adversely impacted by customers' inability to pay us in a timely manner, if at all, due to their financial difficulties, which could include bankruptcies. The availability of credit since the second half of calendar year 2008 has been severely limited, which has negatively affected business and consumer spending generally. If our customers do not have access to capital, we do not expect that our volumes will improve or that we will increase new business. If our stock price were to fall below $1.00 and we do not meet the NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, our Class A common stock may be delisted. As of May 29, 2009, the closing bid price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $2.50. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), if our closing bid price were to drop below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ would provide written notification that our securities may be delisted unless the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within 180 calendar days from of such notification. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has suspended the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through July 20, 2009. There can be no assurance that the bid price of our Class A common stock will be above $1.00 per share when the Rule is reinstated on July 20, 2009 or that the bid price of our Class A common stock will remain in excess of $1.00 per share thereafter. In addition, there can be no assurance that our Class A common stock will not be delisted due to a failure to meet other continued listing requirements even if the bid price of our Class A common stock remains in excess of $1.00 per share. Failure to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market could have an adverse effect on a stockholder's ability to buy or sell shares of our Class A common stock, which could affect the value of their investment in our Class A common stock. 27 Table of Contents We incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements and related litigation arising from an actual or perceived breach of such requirements could also subject us to fines, penalties, judgments and impose limits on our ability to expand. We are subject to potential liability and restrictions under environmental laws, including those relating to transportation, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of wastes, discharges to air and water, and the remediation of contaminated soil, surface water and groundwater. The waste management industry has been and will continue to be subject to regulation, including permitting and related financial assurance requirements, as well as to attempts to further regulate the industry, including efforts to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases. Our waste-to-energy facility is subject to regulations limiting discharges of pollution into the air and water, and our solid waste operations are subject to a wide range of federal, state and, in some cases, local environmental, odor and noise and land use restrictions. If we are not able to comply with the requirements that apply to a particular facility or if we operate without necessary approvals or permits, we could be subject to civil, and possibly criminal, fines and penalties, and we may be required to spend substantial capital to bring an operation into compliance or to temporarily or permanently discontinue activities, and/or take corrective actions, possibly including removal of landfilled materials. Those costs or actions could be significant to us and impact our results of operations, cash flows, as well as our available capital. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for our environmental liabilities, such coverage may not cover all of the potential liabilities we may be subject to and/or we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at reasonable expense, or at all. Environmental and land use laws also impact our ability to expand and, in the case of our solid waste operations, may dictate those geographic areas from which we must, or, from which we may not, accept waste. Those laws and regulations may limit the overall size and daily waste volume that may be accepted by a solid waste operation. If we are not able to expand or otherwise operate one or more of our facilities because of limits imposed under environmental laws, we may be required to increase our utilization of disposal facilities owned by third parties, which could reduce our revenues and/or operating margins. In addition, we are required to obtain governmental permits to operate our facilities, including all of our landfills. Even if we were to comply with applicable environmental law, there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain the requisite permits from the applicable governmental authorities, and, even if we could, that any permit (and any existing permits we currently hold) will be extended or modified as needed to fit our business needs. We have historically grown through acquisitions and may make additional acquisitions from time to time in the future, and we have tried and will continue to try to evaluate and limit environmental risks and liabilities presented by businesses to be acquired prior to the acquisition. It is possible that some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we anticipate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an issue is more serious than we expect, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it. Some of the legal sanctions to which we could become subject could cause the suspension or revocation of a needed permit, or prevent us from or delay us in obtaining or renewing permits to operate or expand our facilities or harm our reputation. In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2009, we recorded environmental remediation charges totaling $4.4 million for the estimated cost of our share of work associated with a consent order issued by the State of New York to remediate a scrap yard and solid waste transfer station owned by one of our acquired subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that the cost of such cleanup or our share will not exceed our estimates. Our operating program depends on our ability to operate the landfills and transfer stations we own and lease. Localities where we operate generally seek to regulate some or all landfill and transfer station operations, including siting and expansion of operations. The laws adopted by municipalities in 28 Table of Contents which our landfills and transfer stations are located may limit or prohibit the expansion of a landfill or transfer station as well as the amount of waste that we can accept at the landfill or transfer station on a daily, quarterly or annual basis and any effort to acquire or expand landfills and transfer stations typically involves a significant amount of time and expense. We may not be successful in obtaining new landfill or transfer station sites or expanding the permitted capacity of any of our current landfills and transfer stations. If we are unable to develop additional disposal and transfer station capacity, our ability to achieve economies from the internalization of our wastestream will be limited. If we fail to receive new landfill permits or renew existing permits, we may incur landfill asset impairment and other charges associated with accelerated closure. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, we incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by governmental agencies and private parties. We are, and also may be in the future, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage, which may result in our payment of significant amount of liabilities. See also "Business—Regulation," and Note 13 in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our operations would be adversely affected if we do not have access to sufficient capital. Our ability to remain competitive and sustain our operations depends in part on cash flow from operations and our access to capital. We currently fund our cash needs primarily through cash from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. However, we will need to refinance this credit facility and we may require additional equity and/or debt financing from time to time, including for the payment of the principal and interest under the notes and our other indebtedness, and to fund our growth and operations. In addition, if we undertake more acquisitions or further expand our operations, our capital requirements may increase. We may not have access to the amount of capital that we require from time to time, on favorable terms, or at all. Our results of operations could continue to be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. Our results of operations have been and may continue to be affected by changing purchase or resale prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. Our recycling business involves the purchase and sale of recyclable materials, some of which are priced on a commodity basis. The market for recyclable materials, particularly waste paper, plastic and ferrous and aluminum metals, has been affected by unprecedented price decreases since October 2008, resulting in a severe impact on our results of operations. Although we have begun to experience some recovery in commodity pricing, such prices will continue to be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. Although we seek to limit our exposure to fluctuating commodity prices through the use of hedging agreements, floor price contracts and long-term supply contracts with customers and have sought to mitigate commodity price fluctuations by reducing the prices we pay for purchased materials or increasing tip fees at our facilities, these fluctuations have in the past contributed, and may continue to contribute, to significant variability in our period-to-period results of operations. Our business is geographically concentrated and is therefore subject to regional economic downturns. Our operations and customers are principally located in the eastern United States. Therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations are susceptible to regional economic downturns and other regional factors, including state regulations and budget constraints and severe weather conditions. In addition, as we seek to expand in our existing markets, opportunities for growth within this region will become more limited and the geographic concentration of our business will increase. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively compete in the highly competitive solid waste services industry. The solid waste services industry is highly competitive, has undergone a period of consolidation and requires substantial labor and capital resources. Some of the markets in which we compete or will likely compete are served by, or adjacent to markets served by, one or more of the large national or multinational solid waste companies, as well as numerous regional and local solid waste companies. Intense competition exists not only to provide services to customers, but also to acquire other businesses within each market. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. From time to time, competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid contract. These practices may either require us to reduce the pricing of our services or result in our loss of business. As is generally the case in our industry, some municipal contracts are subject to periodic competitive bidding. We may not be the successful bidder to obtain or retain these contracts. If we are unable to compete with larger and better capitalized companies, or to replace municipal contracts lost through the competitive bidding process with comparable contracts or other revenue sources within a reasonable time period our revenues would decrease and our operating results would be harmed. In our solid waste disposal markets we also compete with operators of alternative disposal and recycling facilities and with counties, municipalities and solid waste districts that maintain their own waste collection, recycling and disposal operations. These entities may have financial advantages because of their ability to charge user fees or similar charges, impose tax revenues and access tax-exempt financing. Our GreenFiber insulation manufacturing joint venture with Louisiana-Pacific Corporation competes with other parties, principally national manufacturers of fiberglass insulation, which have substantially greater resources than GreenFiber does, which they could use for product development, marketing or other purposes to our detriment. Our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected if we inadequately accrue for capping, closure and post-closure costs or by the timing of these costs for our waste disposal facilities. We have material financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs of our existing owned or operated landfills and will have material financial obligations with respect to any disposal facilities which we may own or operate in the future. Once the permitted capacity of a particular landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized, the landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance started. We establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with such capping, closure and post-closure obligations over the anticipated useful life of each landfill on a per ton basis. We have provided and expect that we will in the future provide accruals for financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs of our owned or operated landfills, generally for a term of 30 years after final closure of a landfill. Our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. Such a circumstance could result in significant unanticipated charges which would have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, the timing of any such capping, closure or post-closure costs, which exceed established accruals may further negatively impact our business. Since we will be unable to control the timing and amounts of such costs, we may be forced to delay investments or planned improvements in other parts of our business or we may be unable to meet applicable financial assurance requirements. Any of the foregoing would negatively impact our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Fluctuations in fuel costs could affect our operating expenses and results. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including among others, geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regional production patterns. Because fuel is needed to run our fleet of trucks, price escalations for fuel increase our operating expenses. In fiscal year 2009, we used approximately 6.7 million gallons of diesel fuel in our solid waste operations. We have a fuel and oil recovery fee program, based on a fuel index, to recover increases in the cost of fuel, oil and lubricants arising from price volatility. This fee has been passed on to all of our customers where their contracts and competition conditions permit. We could be precluded from entering into contracts or obtaining or maintaining permits or certain contracts if we are unable to obtain third party financial assurance to secure our contractual obligations. Public solid waste collection, recycling and disposal contracts, obligations associated with landfill closure and the operation and closure of our waste-to-energy facility may require performance or surety bonds, letters of credit or other means of financial assurance to secure our contractual performance. If we are unable to obtain the necessary financial assurance in sufficient amounts or at acceptable rates, we could be precluded from entering into additional municipal solid waste collection contracts or from obtaining or retaining landfill management contracts or operating permits. Any future difficulty in obtaining insurance could also impair our ability to secure future contracts conditioned upon having adequate insurance coverage. We currently obtain performance and surety bonds from Evergreen, in which we hold a 19.9% equity interest. We may be required to write-off or impair capitalized costs or intangible assets in the future or we may incur restructuring costs or other charges, each of which could harm our earnings. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to our acquisitions, pending acquisitions, landfills and development projects. In addition, we have considerable unamortized assets. From time to time in future periods, we may be required to incur a charge against earnings in an amount equal to any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances, net of any portion thereof that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise, relating to (1) any operation or other asset that is being sold, permanently shut down, impaired or has not generated or is not expected to generate sufficient cash flow, (2) any pending acquisition that is not consummated, (3) any landfill or development project that is not expected to be successfully completed, and (4) any goodwill or other intangible assets that are determined to be impaired. In response to such charges and costs and other market factors, we may be required to implement restructuring plans in an effort to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. As a result of such actions, we would expect to incur restructuring expenses and accounting charges which may be material. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, the development of our landfill capacity and recycling technologies and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("SFAS No. 142"), we performed our annual assessment of goodwill impairment at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 31 Table of Contents 2009 by applying a fair value test to identified reporting segments. In the first step of testing for goodwill impairment, we estimated the fair value of each reporting unit, which we determined to be our four operating regions (Eastern, Western, Central and FCR). Effective February 1, 2009 we combined the management of the former South Eastern and North Eastern regions into the Eastern region. In conjunction with this combination, Maine Energy, which was formerly a separate reporting unit, was also combined into the Eastern region reporting unit. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was compared with the carrying value of the net assets assigned to each reporting unit. Consistent with prior years, to determine the fair value of each of our reporting units as a whole we used discounted cash flow analyses and estimates about the future operations of each reporting unit. This analysis included a determination of an appropriate discount rate, the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates. The cash flows employed in our discounted cash flow analyses were based on financial forecasts developed internally by management. The discount rate used at the test date was our risk adjusted discount rate applicable for each reporting unit. The sum of the fair values of the reporting units was reconciled to our current market capitalization (based on our stock price) plus an estimated control premium. The step one test determined that the fair value of its Eastern region reporting segment was less than its carrying value. The reasons for this outcome were the continued deterioration of the equity and credit markets and the economy and their related impact on (i) our projected near term cash flows, due to lower projected landfill volumes and commodity pricing and (ii) an increase in our risk adjusted discount rate. We proceeded to a step two analysis, which included valuing the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of the Eastern region to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. The result of this assessment indicated that the implied fair value of goodwill was zero. As a result we recognized a non-cash pre-tax charge of $55.3 million for the quarter ended April 30, 2009, to write-off the entire carrying value of the Eastern region goodwill. Our revenues and our operating income experience seasonal fluctuations. Our transfer and disposal revenues have historically been lower during the months of November through March. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of waste during the late fall, winter and early spring months primarily because: •the volume of waste relating to construction and demolition activities decreases substantially during the winter months in the northeastern United States; and •decreased tourism in Vermont, Maine and eastern New York during the winter months tends to lower the volume of waste generated by commercial and restaurant customers, which is partially offset by increased volume from the ski industry. Since certain of our operating and fixed costs remain constant throughout the fiscal year, operating income is impacted by a similar seasonality. In addition, particularly harsh weather conditions typically result in increased operating costs. Our recycling business experiences increased volumes of newspaper in November and December due to increased newspaper advertising and retail activity during the holiday season. GreenFiber experiences lower sales from April through July due to lower retail activity. We may, in the future, attempt to divest or sell certain parts or components of our business to third parties which may result in lower than expected proceeds or losses or we may be unable to identify potential purchasers. From time to time in the future, we may sell or divest certain components of our business. These divestitures may be undertaken for a number of reasons, including as a result of a determination that the specified asset will provide inadequate returns to us, the asset no longer serves a strategic purpose 32 Table of Contents in connection with our business or we determine the asset may be more valuable to a third party. The timing of such sales or divesture may not be entirely within our control. For example, we may need to quickly divest assets to satisfy immediate cash requirements, or we may be forced to sell certain assets prior to canvassing the market or at a time when market conditions for valuations or for financing for buyers are unfavorable, which would result in proceeds to us in an amount less than we expect or less than our assessment of the value of those assets. We also may not be able to identify buyers for certain of our assets, particularly given the difficulty that potential acquirers may currently face in obtaining financing, or we may face opposition from municipalities or communities to a disposition or the proposed buyer. Any sale of our assets could result in a loss on divestiture. Any of the foregoing would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. With respect to our Maine Energy facility, we are currently in negotiations with government officials regarding a possible publicly funded purchase of the facility. However, these discussions are in preliminary stages and there can be no assurance that this or any transactions can be completed. This governmental involvement has impacted our ability to divest of the facility to third parties. We may engage in acquisitions in the future with the goal of complementing or expanding our business, including developing additional disposal capacity. However, we may be unable to complete these transactions and, if executed, these transactions may not improve our business or may pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. We have in the past, and we may in the future, make acquisitions in order to acquire or develop additional disposal capacity. These acquisitions may include "tuck-in" acquisitions within our existing markets, assets that are adjacent to or outside our existing markets, or larger, more strategic acquisitions. In addition, from time to time we may acquire businesses that are complementary to our core business strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If we identify suitable acquisition candidates, we may be unable to negotiate successfully their acquisition at a price or on terms and conditions favorable to us. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approval to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to achieve the benefits from any potential future acquisitions, including cost savings and operating efficiencies, depends in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses with our operations. The integration of acquired businesses and other assets may require significant management time and company resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing management of our existing operations. Any properties or facilities that we acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities, such as undisclosed environmental contamination, for which we would have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. In addition, the process of acquiring, developing and permitting additional disposal capacity is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Moreover, the disposal capacity at our existing landfills is limited by the remaining available volume at our landfills and annual, quarterly and/or daily disposal limits imposed by the various governmental authorities with jurisdiction over our landfills. We typically reach or approximate our daily, quarterly and annual maximum permitted disposal capacity at the majority of our landfills. If we are unable to develop or acquire additional disposal capacity, our ability to achieve economies from the internalization of our waste stream will be limited and we may be required to increase our utilization of disposal facilities owned by third parties, which could reduce our revenues and/or our operating margins. 33 Table of Contents Efforts by labor unions to organize our employees could divert management attention and increase our operating expenses. Labor unions regularly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. Certain groups of our employees have chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these groups. The negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income (or increased net loss). If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes. Depending on the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our revenues could decrease and our operating expenses could increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of May 31, 2009, approximately 5.3% of our employees involved in collection, transfer, disposal, recycling, waste-to-energy or other operations were represented by unions. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and is held exclusively by John W. Casella and Douglas R. Casella. The holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share and the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. At May 31, 2009, an aggregate of 988,200 shares of our Class B common stock, representing 9,882,000 votes, were outstanding, all of which were beneficially owned by John W. Casella, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or by his brother, Douglas R. Casella, a member of our Board of Directors. Based on the number of shares of common stock outstanding on May 31, 2009, the shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock beneficially owned by John W. Casella and Douglas R. Casella represent approximately 32.3% of the aggregate voting power of our stockholders. Consequently, John W. Casella and Douglas R. Casella are able to substantially influence all matters for stockholder consideration. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 