ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. AN INVESTMENT IN THE SHARES OF CADUS' COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. ACCORDINGLY, INVESTORS AND PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS SHOULD CONSIDER CAREFULLY THE FOLLOWING RISK 10 FACTORS, AS WELL AS ALL OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTMENTS IN SHARES OF CADUS' COMMON STOCK. THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO DERIVE REVENUES FROM ITS TECHNOLOGIES The Company has licensed its yeast technologies to OSI and a major pharmaceutical company. Under its license, OSI is obligated to pay an annual maintenance fee of $100,000 until the earlier of 2010 or the termination of the license. OSI may terminate the license at any time on 30 days prior notice. The major pharmaceutical company has fully paid for its license, which terminates on December 31, 2006, but may extend the term for additional one-year periods by paying the Company $250,000 for each one-year extension. The Company is seeking to license its yeast technologies to other third parties. There can be no assurance that the existing licensing arrangements will be extended or renewed or will not be terminated or that the Company will enter into new licensing arrangements with other third parties. Certain of the Company's former collaborative partners are required to make payments to the Company upon the achievement by them of certain pre-clinical and drug development milestones and to pay the Company royalties on the sale of any drugs developed as a result of past research collaboration with the Company or through the use of the Company's drug discovery technologies. The Company's receipt of revenues from drug development milestones or royalties on sales under agreements with its former collaborative partners is dependent upon the activities and the development, manufacturing and marketing resources of its former collaborative partners. Development of new pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain, and no assurance can be given that the Company's drug discovery technologies will result in any commercially successful products developed by the Company's former collaborative partners. There can be no assurance that such former collaborative partners will pursue the development and commercialization of such products, that any such development or commercialization would be successful or that the Company will derive any additional revenue from such arrangements. While the Company pursuant to arrangements with its former collaborative partners may be entitled to receive milestone payments and royalties with respect to drugs developed from compounds identified or confirmed using the Company's technologies, there can be no assurance that disputes will not arise over whether or not specific compounds were identified or confirmed using the Company's technologies and are, therefore, covered by such royalty and milestone provisions. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company's former collaborative partners will not pursue alternative technologies in preference to those of the Company. To date, the Company has not received revenues from its former collaborative partners from drug development milestones or royalties. HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES The Company has incurred operating losses in each year since its inception with the exception of 2002. At December 31, 2005, the Company had an accumulated deficit of approximately $33.6 million. The Company's losses have resulted principally from costs incurred 11 in connection with its previous research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with the Company's operations. These costs have exceeded the Company's revenues and interest income. The Company expects to incur additional operating losses over the next several years. UNCERTAINTY OF UTILIZATION OF OPERATING LOSS AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT CARRYFORWARDS. The Company had a net operating loss carryforward of $29,260,000 and a research and development credit carryforward of $2,535,000 at December 31, 2005. These net operating loss carryforwards and the research and development credit carryforward expire in various years from 2007 to 2025. The Company's ability to utilize such net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards is subject to certain limitations, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to utilize such carryforwards. UNCERTAINTY OF FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company's ability to generate revenues and become profitable is dependent in large part on the ability of the Company to enter into additional licensing arrangements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so or that the Company will ever achieve profitability. UNCERTAINTY OF PROTECTION OF PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS Patent law as it relates to inventions in the biotechnology field is still evolving, and involves complex legal and factual questions for which legal principles are not firmly established. Accordingly, no predictions can be made regarding the breadth or enforceability of claims allowed in the patents that have been issued to the Company or its licensors or in patents that may be issued to the Company or its licensors in the future. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the claims in such patents, either as initially allowed by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any of its foreign counterparts or as may be subsequently interpreted by courts inside or outside the United States, will be sufficiently broad to protect the Company's proprietary rights, will be commercially valuable or will provide competitive advantages to the Company and its present or future licensees. Further, there can be no assurance that patents will be granted with respect to any of the Company's pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by the Company in the future. There can be no assurance that any of the Company's issued or licensed patents would ultimately be held valid or that efforts to defend any of its patents, trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights would be successful. The field of gene discovery has become intensely competitive. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or received patents covering their gene discoveries. Some of these 12 applications or patents may be competitive with the Company's applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under the Company's applications. Moreover, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue and because patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than eighteen months after they are filed and because publication of technological developments in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind the date of such developments, the Company cannot be certain that it was the first to invent the subject matter covered by its patents or patent applications or that it was the first to file patent applications for such inventions. If an issue regarding priority of inventions were to arise with respect to any of the patents or patent applications of the Company or its licensors, the Company might have to participate in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or similar agencies in other countries to determine priority of invention. Any such participation could result in substantial cost to the Company, even if the eventual outcome were favorable to the Company. In some cases, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to the Company or its licensors, to protect trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights owned by the Company, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. Such litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of resources by the Company. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could subject the Company to significant liabilities. RISK OF OBSOLESCENCE OR LIMITATIONS ON THE COMPANY'S TECHNOLOGIES The Company's technologies consist principally of genetically engineered yeast cells. The Company is aware of companies, such as Glaxo Smith Kline, Plc, that may use yeast as a drug discovery medium. In addition, many smaller companies are pursuing these areas of research. There can be no assurance that competitors of the Company will not develop competing drug discovery technologies that are more effective than those developed by the Company thereby rendering the Company's drug discovery technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit the Company's ability to use or license its drug discovery technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's goal is to obtain patent protection for its drug discovery technologies and to make these technologies available to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies through licensing arrangements for use in discovering drugs. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will obtain patents covering its technologies that protect it against competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not succeed in developing technologies that circumvent the Company's technologies or that such competitors will not succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than those developed by the Company or that would render technology of the Company less competitive or obsolete. 13 INABILITY TO IDENTIFY ACQUISITIONS OR INVESTMENTS At December 31, 2005, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $24 million. The Company is presently seeking to use a portion of its available cash to acquire or invest in companies or income producing assets. To date the Company has not been able to identify an appropriate acquisition or investment and there can be no assurance that it will do so. There also can be no assurance that acquisitions or investments by the Company will be profitable. UNCERTAINTY OF ACCESS TO CAPITAL There can be no assurance that additional funding, if necessary, will be available on favorable terms, if at all. CONTROL BY EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS; CONCENTRATION OF STOCK OWNERSHIP Carl C. Icahn beneficially owns approximately 38% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Icahn, acting alone, will be able to control most matters requiring approval by the stockholders of the Company, including the election of directors, the adoption of charter amendments, and the approval of mergers and other extraordinary corporate transactions. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. POSSIBLE VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies have been highly volatile and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by the Company's licensees or its competitors, developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters, publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to products or compounds under development by the Company's licensees or former collaborative partners, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, changes in reimbursement policies, developments in the Company's relationship with current or future licensees, if any, public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs developed by the Company's licensees or former collaborative partners using the Company's technologies, public concern as to the efficacy of new technologies, general market conditions, as well as quarterly fluctuations in the Company's revenues, if any, and financial results and other factors, may have a significant effect on the market price of the Common Stock. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's Common Stock. 14 ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECT OF DELAWARE CORPORATE LAW Certain provisions of the Delaware corporate law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of the Company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market prices. ABSENCE OF DIVIDENDS The Company has not paid any dividends on its Common Stock and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. 