Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Mobile Mini could also be adversely affected by other factors besides those listed. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements, factors and risks identified herein. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Mobile Mini, Inc. We are the world’s leading provider of portable storage solutions. We offer a wide range of portable storage products in varying lengths and widths with an assortment of differentiated features such as our patented locking systems, premium doors, electrical wiring and shelving. At December 31, 2009, we operated through a network of 118 locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands. Our portable units provide secure, accessible temporary storage for a diversified client base of customers, including large and small retailers, construction companies, medical centers, schools, utilities, manufacturers and distributors, the U.S. and U.K. military, hotels, restaurants, entertainment complexes and households. Our customers use our products for a wide variety of storage applications, including retail and manufacturing supplies and inventory, temporary offices, construction materials and equipment, documents and records and household goods. We derive most of our revenues from the leasing of portable storage containers, security offices and mobile offices. In addition to our leasing business, we also sell portable storage containers and mobile office units. Our sales revenues represented 9.9% and 10.3% of total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We were founded in 1983 and follow a strategy of focusing on leasing rather than selling our portable storage units. Leasing revenues represented approximately 89.1% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. We believe our leasing strategy is highly effective because the vast majority of our fleet consists of steel portable storage units which: • provide predictable, recurring revenues from leases with an average duration of approximately 32 months; • have average monthly lease rates that recoup our current investment on our remanufactured units within an average of 35 months; and • have long useful lives exceeding 30 years, relatively low maintenance and high residual values. Our total lease fleet has grown significantly over the years to more than 257,000 units at December 31, 2009. We experienced a significant lease fleet unit increase in 2008 due to our acquisition of Mobile Storage Group in 2008. As a result of our focus on leasing, we have achieved substantial increases in our revenues, margins and profitability over the years prior to the recent economic recession. In addition to our leasing operations, we sell new and used portable storage units and provide delivery, installation and other ancillary products and services. Our fleet is primarily comprised of remanufactured and differentiated steel portable storage containers that were built according to standards developed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), other steel containers and steel offices that we manufactured and mobile offices. We remanufacture and customize our purchased ISO containers by adding our proprietary locking and easy-opening premium door systems and steel security offices. Given their steel nature, these assets are characterized by low risk of obsolescence, extreme durability, relatively low maintenance, long useful lives and a history of high-value retention. We also have wood mobile office units in our lease fleet to complement our core steel portable storage products and steel security offices. We maintain our steel containers and offices on a regular basis. Repair and maintenance expense for our fleet has averaged 3.4% of lease revenues over the past three fiscal years and is expensed as incurred. We believe our historical experience with leasing rates and sales prices for these assets demonstrates their high-value retention. We are able to lease our portable storage containers at similar rates without regard to the age of the container. In addition, we have sold containers and steel security offices from our lease fleet at an average of 145% of original cost from 1997 through 2009. Industry Overview The storage industry includes two principal segments, fixed self-storage and portable storage. The fixed self-storage segment consists of permanent structures located away from customer locations used primarily by consumers to temporarily store excess household goods. We do not participate in the fixed self-storage segment. 1 Table of Contents We do offer non-fixed self-storage in secure containers from our fleet at some of our locations in the U.S. and the U.K. The portable storage segment in which our business operates differs from the fixed self-storage segment in that it brings the storage solution to the customer’s location and addresses the need for secure, temporary storage with immediate access to the storage unit. The advantages of portable storage include convenience, immediate accessibility, better security and lower price. In contrast to fixed self-storage, the portable storage segment is primarily used by businesses. This segment of the storage industry is highly fragmented and remains primarily local in nature. We believe the portable storage market in the U.S. exceeds $1.5 billion in revenue annually. Portable storage solutions include containers, record vaults, van trailers and roll-off units. Although there are no published estimates of the size of the portable storage segment, we believe portable storage containers are achieving increased storage market share compared to other storage options and that this segment is expanding because of an increasing awareness that only containers provide ground level access and better protect against damage caused by wind or water than do other portable storage alternatives. As a result, containers can meet the needs of a diverse range of customers. Portable storage units such as ours provide ground level access, higher security and improved aesthetics compared with certain other portable storage alternatives such as van trailers. Our products also serve the mobile office industry. This industry provides mobile offices and other modular structures and we believe this industry generates approximately $5 billion in revenue annually in North America. We offer combined steel storage/office units and mobile offices in varying lengths and widths to serve the various requirements of our customers. We also offer portable record storage units and many of our regular storage units are used for document and record storage. We believe the documents and records storage industry will continue to grow as businesses continue to generate substantial paper records that must be kept for extended periods. Our goal is to continue to be the leading provider of portable storage solutions in North America and the U.K. We believe our competitive strengths and business strategy will enable us to achieve this goal. Competitive Strengths Our competitive strengths include the following: Market Leadership. At December 31, 2009, we maintained a total lease fleet of more than 257,000 units and we are the largest provider of portable storage solutions in North America and the U.K. We believe we are creating brand awareness and the name “Mobile Mini” is associated with high quality portable storage products, superior customer service and value-added storage solutions. We have historically achieved significant growth in new and existing markets by capturing market share from competitors and by creating demand among businesses and consumers who were previously unaware of the availability of our products to meet their storage needs. Superior, Differentiated Products. We offer the industry’s broadest range of portable storage products, with many features that differentiate our products from those of our competition. We remanufacture used ISO containers and have designed and manufactured our own portable storage units. These capabilities allow us to offer a wide range of products and proprietary features to better meet our customers’ needs, charge premium lease rates and gain market share from our competitors, who offer more limited product selections. Our portable storage units vary in size from 5 to 48 feet in length and 8 to 10 feet in width. The 10-foot wide units we manufacture provide 40% more usable storage space than the standard eight-foot-wide ISO containers offered by our competitors. The vast majority of our products have our patented locking system and multiple door options, including easy-open door systems. In addition, we offer portable storage units with electrical wiring, shelving and other customized features. This differentiation allows us to charge premium rental rates compared to the rates charged by our competition. Sales and Marketing Emphasis. We target a diverse customer base and, unlike most of our competitors, have developed sophisticated sales and marketing programs enabling us to expand market awareness of our products and generate strong internal growth. We have a dedicated commissioned sales team and we assist 2 Table of Contents them by providing them with our highly customized contact management system and intensive sales training programs. We monitor our salespersons’ effectiveness through our extensive sales calls monitoring and sales mentoring and training programs. On-line, yellow pages and direct-mail advertising are integral parts of our sales and marketing approach. Our website includes value added features such as product video tours, online payment capabilities and online real time sales inquiries, enabling customers to chat live with our salespeople. National Presence with Local Service. We have the largest national network for portable storage solutions in the U.S. and the U.K. and believe it would be difficult to replicate. We have invested significant capital developing a national network of locations that serves most major metropolitan areas in the U.S. and the U.K. We have differentiated ourselves from our local competitors and made replication of our presence difficult by developing our branch network through both opening branches in multiple cities and purchasing competitors in key markets. The difficulty and time required to obtain the number of units and locations necessary to support a national operation would make establishing a large competitor difficult. In addition, there are difficulties associated with recruiting and hiring an experienced management team such as ours that has strong industry knowledge and local relationships with customers. Our network of local branches and operational yards allows us to develop and maintain relationships with our local customers, while providing a level of service to regional and national companies that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local managers, sales force and delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the customers that benefit from access to our wide selection of products that we offer. Geographic and Customer Diversification. At December 31, 2009, we operated from 118 locations of which 95 were located in the U.S, 3 in Canada, 19 in the U.K., and 1 in The Netherlands. We served approximately 101,000 customers from a wide range of industries in 2009. Our customers include large and small retailers, construction companies, medical centers, schools, utilities, manufacturers and distributors, the U.S. and U.K. militaries, government agencies, hotels, restaurants, entertainment complexes and households. Our diverse customer base demonstrates the broad applications for our products and our opportunity to create future demand through targeted marketing. In 2009, our largest and our second-largest customers accounted for 1.7% and 0.7% of our leasing revenues, respectively, and our twenty largest customers accounted for approximately 6.1% of our leasing revenues. During 2009, approximately 60.8% of our customers rented a single unit. We believe this diversity also helps us to better weather economic downturns in individual markets and the industries in which our customers operate. Customer Service Focus. We believe the portable storage industry is particularly service intensive. Our entire organization is focused on providing high levels of customer service, and we have salespeople both at the national level and at our branch locations to better understand our customer’s needs. We have trained our sales force to focus on all aspects of customer service from the sales call onward. We differentiate ourselves by providing security, convenience, high product quality, differentiated and broad product selection and availability, and competitive lease rates. We conduct training programs for our sales force to assure high levels of customer service and awareness of local market competitive conditions. Additionally, we use a Net Promoter Score (NPS) system to measure and enhance our customer service. We use NPS to measure customer satisfaction each month, rental-by-rental, in real time through surveys conducted by a third party. We then use customer feedback to drive service improvements across the company, from our branches to our corporate headquarters. Our customized Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system also increases our responsiveness to customer inquiries and enables us to efficiently monitor our sales force’s performance. Approximately 56.8% of our 2009 leasing revenues were derived from repeat customers, which we believe is a result of our superior customer service. Customized Enterprise Resource Planning System. We have made significant investments in an ERP system for our U.S. and U.K. operations. These investments enable us to optimize fleet utilization, control pricing, capture detailed customer data, easily evaluate credit approval while approving it quickly, audit company results reports, gain efficiencies in internal control compliance and support our growth by projecting near-term capital needs. In addition, we believe this system gives us a competitive advantage over smaller and less sophisticated local and regional competitors. Our ERP system allows us to carefully monitor, on a real time basis, the size, mix, utilization and lease rates of our lease fleet branch by branch. Our systems also capture relevant customer demographic and usage information, which we use to target new customers within our existing and new markets. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our business strategy consists of the following: Focus on Core Portable Storage Leasing Business. We focus on growing our core storage leasing business, which accounted for 81% of our fleet at December 31, 2009, because it provides recurring revenue and high margins. We believe that we can continue to generate substantial demand for our portable storage units throughout North America and in the U.K. and The Netherlands. Maintain Strong EBITDA Margins. One of the tools we use internally to measure our financial performance is EBITDA margins. We calculate this number by first calculating EBITDA, which we define as net income before interest expense, debt restructuring or extinguishment expense (if applicable), provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization. In comparing EBITDA from year to year, we may further adjust EBITDA to exclude the effect of what we consider transactions or events not related to our core business operations to arrive at adjusted EBITDA. We define our EBITDA margins as EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA, divided by our total revenues, expressed as a percentage. We continue to manage this margin even during the recent downturn in the economic environment. Our objective is to maintain a relatively stable EBITDA margin through adjustments to our cost structure as revenues change. Generate Strong Internal Growth. We focus on increasing the number of portable storage units we lease at our existing branches to both new and repeat customers. We have historically generated strong internal growth within our existing markets through sophisticated sales and marketing programs aimed to increase brand recognition, expand market awareness of the uses of portable storage and differentiate our superior products from our competitors. We define internal growth as growth in lease revenues on a year-over-year basis at our branch locations in operation for at least one year, excluding leasing revenue attributed to same-market acquisitions. Prior to the current recession, our internal growth rate historically was positive every quarter. Due to the acquisition of MSG, we were able to close locations and combine branch management in each of the cities with overlapping branches and reposition our lease fleet at our resulting branch locations to align with customer demand. As a result, comparing internal growth by branch for periods after this acquisition to periods before this acquisition is difficult. Opportunistic Branch Expansion. We believe we have attractive geographic expansion opportunities, and we have developed a new market entry strategy, which we replicate in each new market we enter in the U.S. and Europe. We typically enter a new market by acquiring the lease fleet assets of a small local portable storage business to minimize start-up costs and then overlay our business model onto the new branch. Our business model consists of significantly expanding our fleet inventory with our differentiated products, introducing our sophisticated sales and marketing program supported by increased advertising and direct marketing expenditures, adding experienced Mobile Mini personnel and implementing our customized ERP system. This implementation of our business model has generally enabled our new branches to achieve strong organic growth, including during their first several years of operation. In 2008, we dramatically expanded our geographic locations in both the U.S. and the U.K. and we expanded our presence in some of our existing markets through the acquisition of MSG and four other smaller acquisitions. We have also identified other markets where we believe demand for portable storage units is underdeveloped. Typically, these markets are served by small, local competitors. Given the current economic environment, however, we are currently focused on optimizing our existing markets and entering new markets through greenfield operational yards. These greenfield operational yards are new start-up locations that do not have all the overhead associated with a fully staffed branch. They typically have drivers and yard personnel to handle deliveries and pick-ups. Continue to Enhance Product Offering. We continue to enhance our existing products to meet our customers’ needs and requirements. We have historically been able to introduce new products and features that expand the applications and overall market for our storage products. For example, over the years we introduced a number of innovative products including a 10-foot-wide storage unit, a record storage unit and a 10-by-30-foot steel combination storage/office unit to our fleet. The record storage unit provides highly secure, on-site and easy access to archived business records close at hand. In addition to our steel container and steel security offices, we have also added wood mobile offices as a complementary product to better serve our customers. We have also 4 Table of Contents made continuous improvements (i.e., making it easier to use in colder climates) to our patented locking system over the years. Currently, the 10-foot-wide unit, the record storage unit and the 10-by-30-foot steel combination storage/office unit are exclusively offered by Mobile Mini. We believe our design and manufacturing capabilities increase our ability to service our customers’ needs and expand demand for our portable storage solutions. Products We provide a broad range of portable storage products to meet our customers’ varying needs. Our products are managed and our customers are serviced locally by our employee team at each of our branches, including management, sales personnel and yard facility employees. Some features of our different products are listed below: • Remanufactured and Modified Steel Storage Units. We purchase used ISO containers from leasing companies, shipping lines and brokers. These containers were originally built to ISO standards and are eight feet wide, 8’6” to 9’6” high and 20, 40 or 45 feet long. After acquisition, we remanufacture and modify these ISO containers. Remanufacturing typically involves cleaning, removing rust and dents, repairing floors and sidewalls, painting, adding our signs and installing new doors and our proprietary locking system. Modification typically involves splitting some containers into 5-, 10-, 15-, 20- or 25-foot lengths. We have also manufactured portable steel storage units for our lease fleet and for sale, including our ten foot wide units. We generally purchase used ISO containers when they are 10 to 12 years old, a time at which their useful life as an ISO shipping container is over according to the standards promulgated by the International Organization for Standardization. Because we do not have the same stacking and strength requirements that apply in the ISO shipping industry, we have no need for these containers to meet ISO standards. We purchase these containers, truck them to our locations, remanufacture them by removing any rust, paint them with a rust inhibiting paint, and further customize them, typically by adding our proprietary easy-opening door system and our patented locking system. If we need to purchase ISO containers, as we had in the past, we believe we would be able to procure them at competitive prices because of our volume purchasing power. • Steel Security Office and Steel Security Office/Storage Units. We buy and historically have manufactured steel combination office/security and security office units that range from 10 to 40 feet in length. We offer these units in various configurations, including office and storage combination units that provide a 10- or 15-foot office with the remaining area available for storage. We believe our office units provide the advantage of ground accessibility for ease of access and high security in an all-steel design. Our European products include canteen units and drying rooms for the construction industry. For customers with space limitations, the office/canteen units can also be stacked two high with stairs for access to the top unit. These office units are equipped with electrical wiring, heating and air conditioning, phone jacks, carpet or tile, high security doors and windows with security bars or shutters. Some of these offices are also equipped with sinks, hot water heaters, cabinets and restrooms. • Wood Mobile Office Units. We offer mobile office units, which range from 8 to 24 feet in width and 20 to 60 feet in length, and which we purchase from manufacturers. These units have a wide range of exterior and interior options, including exterior stairs or ramps, awnings and skirting. These units are equipped with electrical wiring, heating and air conditioning, phone jacks, carpet or tile and windows with security bars. Many of these units contain restrooms. • Steel Records Storage Units. We market proprietary portable records storage units that enable customers to store documents at their location for easy access, or at one of our facilities. Our units are 10.5 feet wide and are available in 12 and 23-foot lengths. The units feature high-security doors and locks, electrical wiring, shelving, folding work tables and air filtration systems. We believe our product is a cost-effective alternative to mass warehouse storage, with a high level of fire and water damage protection. • Van Trailers — Non-Core Storage Units. Our acquisitions typically entail the purchase of small companies with lease fleets primarily comprised of standard ISO containers. However, many of these companies also have van trailers and other manufactured storage products, which we believe do not have the same advantages as standard containers. It is our goal to dispose of these units from our fleet either as their initial rental period ends or within a few years. We do not remanufacture these products. See “Product Lives 5 Table of Contents and Durability — Van Trailers — Non-Core Storage Units” below. At December 31, 2009, van trailers comprised less than 0.4% of our lease fleet net book value. • Timber Units — Non-Core Units. In connection with the MSG transaction, we acquired assets that were not part of our principal lease fleet. These assets include timber units in the U.K., which are older wood constructed mobile offices. We dispose of these non-core assets as opportunities permit. • Portable Toilets — Non-Core Units. Other units acquired in the MSG transaction include portable toilets, which are typically leased in conjunction with office unit leases in the U.K. We protect our products and brands through the use of trademarks and patents. In particular, we have patented our proprietary door locking system. In 2003 and 2006, we were issued United States patents in connection with our Container Guard Lock and our tri-cam locking system design. In 2006, we applied in several countries for patents for improvements or modifications to our tri-cam locking systems. These applications have been approved in Europe and China and are still pending in the United States and other countries. Product Lives and Durability We believe our steel portable storage units, steel security offices, and wood mobile offices have estimated useful lives of 30 years, 30 years, and 20 years, respectively, from the date we build or acquire and remanufacture them, with residual values of our per-unit investment ranging from 50% for our mobile offices to 55% for our core steel products. Van trailers, which comprised 0.4% of the net book value of our lease fleet at December 31, 2009, are depreciated over seven years to a 20% residual value. For the past three fiscal years, our cost to repair and maintain our lease fleet units averaged approximately 3.4% of our lease revenues. Repainting the outside of storage units is the most common maintenance item. We maintain our steel containers on a regular basis by painting them, removing rust, and occasionally replacing the wooden floor or a rusted panel as they come off rent and are ready to be leased again. This periodic maintenance keeps the container in essentially the same condition as after we initially remanufactured it and is designed to maintain the unit’s value and rental rates comparable to new units. Approximately 10.3% of our 2009 revenue was derived from sales of our units. Because the containers in our lease fleet do not significantly depreciate in value, we have no systematic program in place to sell lease fleet containers as they reach a certain age. Instead, most of our U.S. container sales involve either highly customized containers that would be difficult to lease on a recurring basis, or containers that we have not remanufactured. In addition, due primarily to availability of inventory at various locations at certain times of the year, we sell a certain portion of containers and offices from the lease fleet. Our gross margins increase for containers that have been in our lease fleet for greater lengths of time prior to sale, because although these units have been depreciated based upon a 30 year useful life and 55% residual value (1.5% per year), in most cases fair value may not decline by nearly that amount due to the nature of the assets and our maintenance policy. The following table shows the gross margin on containers and steel security offices sold from inventory (which we call our sales fleet) and from our lease fleet from 1997 through 2009 based on the length of time in the lease fleet. Sales Sales Revenue as a Revenue as a Number of Sales Original Percentage of Percentage of Units Sold Revenue Cost(1) Original Cost Net Book Value (Dollars in thousands) Sales fleet(2) 38,437 $ 123,100 $ 81,325 151 % 151 % Lease fleet, by period held before sale: Less than 5 years 27,622 $ 86,766 $ 59,768 145 % 151 % 5 to 10 years 4,840 $ 21,535 $ 14,742 146 % 162 % 10 to 15 years 1,195 $ 4,795 $ 3,361 143 % 168 % 15 to 20 years 188 $ 617 $ 439 141 % 176 % 20+ years 9 $ 33 $ 29 111 % 161 % 6 Table of Contents (1) “Original cost” for purposes of this table includes (i) the price we paid for the unit, plus (ii) the cost of our manufacturing or remanufacturing, which includes both the cost of customizing units incurred, plus (iii) the freight charges to our branch when the unit is first placed in service. For manufactured units, cost includes our manufacturing cost and the freight charges to the branch location where the unit is first placed into service. (2) Includes sales of raw ISO containers. Appraisals on our fleet are conducted on a regular basis by an independent appraiser selected by our lenders and the appraiser does not differentiate in value based upon the age of the container or the length of time it has been in our fleet. As of December 31, 2009, based on the latest orderly liquidation value appraisal in May 2009, on which our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are based, our lease fleet liquidation appraisal value is approximately $911.6 million, which equates to 86.4% of our lease fleet net book value of $1.1 billion at year end. At December 31, 2008, our orderly liquidation value equated to 85.3% of the lease fleet net book value. Because steel storage containers substantially keep their value when properly maintained, we are able to lease containers that have been in our lease fleet for various lengths of time at similar rates, without regard to the age of the container. Our lease rates vary by the size and type of unit leased, length of contractual term, custom features and the geographic location of our branch at which the lease is originated. While we focus on service and security as a main differentiation of our products from our competitors, pricing competition, market conditions and other factors can influence our leasing rates. The following chart shows the average monthly lease rate that we currently receive for various types of containers that have been in our lease fleet for various periods of time. We have added our 10-foot-wide containers and security offices to the fleet and those types of units are not included in this chart. This chart includes the eight major types of containers in the fleet, but specific details of such type of unit are not provided due to competitive considerations. Age of Containers (By Number of Years in Our Lease Fleet) Total Number/ 0 — 5 6 — 10 11 — 15 16 — 20 Over 21 Average Dollar Type 1 Number of units 6,034 1,438 2,020 123 6 9,621 Average monthly rent $ 68.02 $ 83.43 $ 85.22 $ 80.80 $ 78.54 $ 74.10 Type 2 Number of units 892 630 483 71 5 2,081 Average monthly rent $ 85.27 $ 87.29 $ 86.06 $ 81.17 $ 87.32 $ 85.93 Type 3 Number of units 17,530 2,344 1,701 519 87 22,181 Average monthly rent $ 67.03 $ 83.61 $ 85.42 $ 84.19 $ 83.11 $ 70.66 Type 4 Number of units 264 268 491 64 6 1,093 Average monthly rent $ 106.54 $ 102.34 $ 106.63 $ 100.88 $ 96.06 $ 105.16 Type 5 Number of units 480 275 709 25 1 1,490 Average monthly rent $ 103.89 $ 114.50 $ 124.03 $ 118.69 $ 119.17 $ 115.69 Type 6 Number of units 6,164 5,021 2,389 258 20 13,852 Average monthly rent $ 124.19 $ 124.60 $ 131.11 $ 127.02 $ 125.07 $ 125.59 Type 7 Number of units 20,151 9,522 2,349 100 41 32,163 Average monthly rent $ 111.52 $ 111.89 $ 121.22 $ 125.20 $ 112.67 $ 112.38 Type 8 Number of units 301 281 326 22 6 936 Average monthly rent $ 164.46 $ 161.26 $ 166.85 $ 156.30 $ 170.99 $ 164.18 We believe fluctuations in rental rates based on container age are primarily a function of the location of the branch from which the container was leased rather than age of the container. Some of the units added to our lease fleet during recent years through our acquisitions program have lower lease rates than the rates we typically obtain because the units remain on lease under terms (including lower rental rates) that were in place when we obtained the units in acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents We periodically review our depreciation policy against various factors, including the following: • results of our lenders’ independent appraisal of our lease fleet; • practices of the major competitors in our industry; • our experience concerning useful life of the units; • profit margins we are achieving on sales of depreciated units; and • lease rates we obtain on older units. In 2009, some of the steel units in our lease fleet were older than the 25 year originally assigned useful life. In April 2009, we evaluated our depreciation policy on steel units and changed their estimated useful life to 30 years with an estimated residual value of 55%, which effectively results in continual depreciation on these units at the same annual rate of book value as our previous depreciation policy of 25 year life and 62.5% residual value. This change had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial statements at the date of the change in estimate. Our depreciation policy for our lease fleet uses the straight-line method over the units’ estimated useful life, after the date we put the unit in service, and the units are depreciated down to their estimated residual values. Steel Storage, Steel Office and Combination Units. Our steel products are our core leasing units and include portable storage units, whether manufactured or remanufactured ISO containers, steel security office and storage/office combination units. Our steel units are depreciated over 30 years with an estimated residual value of 55%. Wood Mobile Office Units. Because of the wood structure of these units, they are more susceptible to wear and tear than steel units. We depreciate these units over 20 years down to a 50% residual value (2.5% per year), which we believe to be consistent with most of our major competitors in this industry. Wood mobile office units lose value over time and we may sell older units from time to time. At the end of 2009, our wood mobile offices were all less than ten years old. These units, excluding those units acquired in acquisitions, are also more expensive than our storage units, causing an increase in the average carrying value per unit in the lease fleet over the last nine years. The operating margins on mobile offices are lower than the margins on steel containers. However, these mobile offices are rented using our existing infrastructure and therefore provide incremental returns far in excess of our fixed expenses. These returns add to our overall profitability and operating margins. Van Trailers — Non-Core Storage Units. At December 31, 2009, van trailers made up less than 0.4% of the net book value of our lease fleet. When we acquire businesses in our industry, the acquired businesses often have van trailers and other manufactured storage products which we believe do not offer customers the same advantages as our core steel container storage product. We depreciate our van trailers over 7 years to a 20% residual value. We often attempt to sell most of these units from our fleet as they come off rent or within a few years after we acquire them. We do not utilize our resources to remanufacture these products and instead resell them. Timber Units — Non-Core Units. These units are older wood constructed mobile offices in the U.K. and are depreciated over 5 years to 10% of their assigned value. Portable Toilets — Non-Core Units. Steel portable toilets are depreciated over 30 years to 55% of their residual value. Wood timber portable toilets are depreciated over 5 years to 10% of their residual value and we used to have fiberglass portable toilets that were depreciated over 3 years to 30% of their residual value. Lease Fleet Configuration Our lease fleet is comprised of over 100 different configurations of units. Throughout the year we add units to our fleet through purchases of used ISO containers and containers obtained through acquisitions, both of which we remanufacture and customize. We also purchase new manufactured mobile offices in various configurations and sizes, and manufacture our own custom steel units. Due to the number of units acquired in the MSG transaction and the current economic environment, we do not anticipate needing to purchase or acquire containers or offices to remanufacture or customize until the operating environment significantly improves. Our initial cost basis of an ISO container includes the purchase price from the seller, the cost of remanufacturing, which can include removing rust 8 Table of Contents and dents, repairing floors, sidewalls and ceilings, painting, signage and installing new doors, seals and a locking system. Additional modifications may involve the splitting of a unit to create several smaller units and adding customized features. The restoring and modification processes do not necessarily occur in the same year the units are purchased or acquired. We procure larger containers, typically 40-foot units, and split them into two 20-foot units or one 25-foot and one 15-foot unit, or other configurations as needed, and then add new doors along with our patented locking system and sometimes add custom features. We also will sell units from our lease fleet to our customers. The table below outlines those transactions that effectively maintained the net book value of our lease fleet at $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009: Dollars Units (Dollars in thousands) Lease fleet at December 31, 2008, net $ 1,078,156 273,748 Purchases: Container purchases including freight 694 307 Manufactured units: Steel containers, combination storage/office combo units and steel security offices 1,048 67 Wood mobile offices 41 2 Remanufacturing and customization of units purchased or obtained through acquisitions(1) 17,282 1,089 (3) Other(2) (10,707 ) (3,291 )(4) Cost of sales from lease fleet (21,896 ) (14,714 ) Effect of exchange rate changes 10,122 Depreciation (19,412 ) Lease fleet at December 31, 2009, net $ 1,055,328 257,208 (1) Does not include any routine maintenance, which is expensed as incurred. (2) Includes adjustments to valuation on acquired MSG units, primarily trailers, additional cost on splitting units and net transfers from finished goods. (3) These units include the net additional units that were the result of splitting steel containers into one or more shorter units, such as splitting a 40-foot container into two 20-foot units, or one 25-foot unit and one 15-foot unit and includes units moved from finished goods to lease fleet (4) Includes net units transferred in and out of lease fleet. The table below outlines the composition of our lease fleet at December 31, 2009: Percentage of Lease Fleet Number of Units Units (In thousands) Steel storage containers $ 621,466 206,925 81 % Offices 526,951 41,946 16 % Van trailers 5,557 8,337 3 % Other (chassis and ancillary products) 2,651 1,156,625 Accumulated depreciation (101,297 ) $ 1,055,328 257,208 100 % 9 Table of Contents Branch Operations Our senior management analyzes and manages the business as one business segment and our operations across all branches concentrate on the same core business of leasing, using products that are substantially the same in each market. In order to effectively manage this business across different geographic areas, we divide our one business segment into smaller management areas we call divisions, regions and branches. Each of our branches generally has similar economic characteristics covering all products leased or sold, including similar customer base, sales personnel, advertising, yard facilities, general and administrative costs and branch management. Further financial information by geography is provided in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this report. In the U.S. particularly, we locate our branches in markets with attractive demographics and strong growth prospects. Within each market, we have located our branches in areas that allow for easy delivery of portable storage units to our customers over a wide geographic area. In addition, when cost effective, we seek locations that are visible from high traffic roads in order to advertise our products and our name. Our branches maintain an inventory of portable storage units available for lease, and some of our older branches also provide storage of units under lease at the branch (on-site storage). At December 31, 2009, we operated from 118 locations of which 95 were located in the U.S, 3 in Canada, 19 in the U.K., and 1 in The Netherlands. We currently have 67 branches in the U.S., 1 branch in Canada, 17 branches in the U.K. and 1 branch in The Netherlands. Additionally, we have properties we call operational yards from which we can service a local market and store and maintain our products and equipment. We currently have 32 operational yards. We continue to evaluate our branch operations and where it becomes operationally feasible, we convert some of our branches to operational yards to further reduce expenses. These operational yards do not have branch managers or sales people, but typically have a dispatcher and drivers assigned to them. Each branch has a branch manager who has overall supervisory responsibility for all activities of the branch. Many branch managers also oversee our operational yards that reside within their geographic area. Branch managers report to regional managers who each generally oversee multiple branches. Our regional managers, in turn, report to one of our operational senior vice presidents (called a managing director in Europe). Performance based incentive bonuses are a substantial portion of the compensation for these senior vice presidents and regional and branch managers. Each branch has its own sales force and a transportation department that delivers and picks up portable storage units from customers. Each branch has delivery trucks and forklifts to load, transport and unload units and a storage yard staff responsible for unloading and stacking units. Steel units can be stored by stacking them to maximize usable ground area. Some of our larger branches also have a fleet maintenance department to maintain the branch’s trucks, forklifts and other equipment. Our other branches perform preventive maintenance tasks but outsource major repairs and other maintenance requirements. Sales and Marketing We have implemented a hybrid sales model consisting of a dedicated sales staff at all our branch locations as well as at our national sales center. Our local sales staff builds and strengthens relationships with local customers in each market with particular emphasis on contractors and construction-related customers, who tend to demand local salesperson presence. Our dedicated national sales center handles primarily in-bound calls from new customers as well as existing customers not serviced by branch sales personnel. Our sales staff at the national sales center work with our local branch managers, dispatchers and sales personnel to ensure customers receive integrated first class service from initial call to delivery. Our branch sales staff, national sales center and sales management team at our headquarters and other locations conduct sales and marketing on a full-time basis. We believe that offering local salesperson presence for customers along with the efficiencies of a centralized sales operation for customers not needing a local sales contact will continue to allow us to provide high levels of customer service and serve all of our customers in a dedicated, efficient manner. Our sales force handles all of our products and we do not maintain separate sales forces for our various product lines. Our sales and marketing force provides information about our products to prospective customers by handling inbound calls and by initiating cold calls. We have ongoing sales and marketing training programs covering all 10 Table of Contents aspects of leasing and customer service. Our branches communicate with one another and with corporate headquarters through our ERP system and our customer relationship management software and tools. This enables the sales and marketing team to share leads and other information and permits management to monitor and review sales and leasing productivity on a branch-by-branch basis. We improve our sales efforts by recording and rating the sales calls made and received by our trained sales force. Our sales and marketing employees are compensated primarily on a commission basis. Our nationwide presence in the U.S. and the U.K. allows us to offer our products to larger customers who wish to centralize the procurement of portable storage on a multi-regional or national basis. We are well equipped to meet these customers’ needs through our National Account Program, which centralizes and simplifies the procurement, rental and billing process for those customers. Approximately 1,100 U.S. customers and 60 European customers currently participate in our National Account Program. We also provide our national account customers with service guarantees which assure them they will receive the same high level of customer service from any of our branch locations. This program has helped us succeed in leveraging customer relationships developed at one branch throughout our branch system. We focus an increasing portion of our marketing expenditures on internet-based initiatives with web-based products and services for both existing customers and potential customers. We also advertise our products in the yellow pages and use a targeted direct mail program. In 2009, we mailed approximately 2.8 million product brochures to existing and prospective customers. These brochures describe our products and features and highlight the advantages of portable storage. Customers During 2009, approximately 101,000 customers leased our portable storage, combination storage/office and mobile office units, compared to approximately 118,000 in 2008. Our customer base is diverse and consists of businesses in a broad range of industries. Our largest single leasing customer accounted for only 1.8% of our leasing revenues in 2008 and 1.7% in 2009. Our next largest customer accounted for approximately 0.7% of our leasing revenues in both 2008 and 2009. Our twenty largest customers combined accounted for approximately 5.2% of our lease revenues in 2008 and approximately 6.1% of our lease revenues in 2009. Approximately 60.8% of our customers rented a single unit during 2009. Based on an independent market study, we believe our customers are engaged in a vast majority of the industries identified in the four-digit SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) manual published by the U.S. Bureau of the Census. 11 Table of Contents We target customers who can benefit from our portable storage solutions either for seasonal, temporary or long-term storage needs. Customers use our portable storage units for a wide range of purposes. The following table provides an overview of our customers and how they use our portable storage, combination storage/office and mobile office units as of December 31, 2009: Approximate Percentage of Representative Business Units on Lease Customers Typical Application Consumer service and retail businesses 33.5% Department, drug, grocery and strip mall stores, hotels, restaurants, dry cleaners and service stations Inventory storage, record storage and seasonal needs Construction 27.9% General, electrical, plumbing and mechanical contractors, landscapers, residential homebuilders and equipment rental companies Equipment and materials storage and job offices Industrial and commercial 21.5% Distributors, trucking and utility companies, finance and insurance companies and film production companies Raw materials, equipment, record storage, in-plant office and seasonal needs Government and Institutions 10.1% Schools, hospitals, medical centers, military, Native American tribal governments and reservations and national, state, county and local governmental agencies Athletic equipment, military storage, disaster preparedness, supplier, record storage, security office, supplies, equipment storage, temporary office space and seasonal needs Consumers 6.0% Homeowners Backyard storage and storage of household goods during relocation or renovation; storage at our location Other 1.0% Remanufacturing Historically, we have built new steel portable storage units, steel security offices and other custom-designed steel structures as well as remanufactured used ISO containers at our Maricopa, Arizona facility. We continue to remanufacture used ISO containers by adding our proprietary locking and easy-opening door systems at some of our branch locations. Our differentiated product offering allows us to provide a broad selection of products to our customers and distinguishes our products from our competitors. If needed in the remanufacturing process, we purchase raw materials such as steel, vinyl, wood, glass and paint, which we use in our remanufacturing and restoring operations. We typically buy these raw materials on a purchase order basis. We do not have long-term contracts with vendors for the supply of any raw materials. After integrating the assets and operations we acquired in the MSG acquisition, we leveraged our combined fleet and restructured our manufacturing operations, reducing overhead and capital expenditures for our lease fleet. We accomplished this primarily by reducing our work force at our Maricopa, Arizona manufacturing facility in December 2008 by approximately 90%, in addition to reducing manufacturing and remanufacturing staff at other locations. Additionally, we essentially halted new production activities other than completing existing work in process assignments. For the near future, we expect our Maricopa, Arizona facility, with a limited staff, will predominately be used for remanufacturing and rebranding units acquired in acquisitions to be compliant with our lease fleet standards and for repairs and maintenance on our existing lease fleet. 12 Table of Contents Vehicles At December 31, 2009, we had a fleet of 734 delivery trucks, of which 574 were owned and 160 were leased. We use these trucks to deliver and pick up containers at customer locations. We supplement our delivery fleet by outsourcing delivery services to independent haulers when appropriate. Enterprise Resource Planning and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Systems We use a customized ERP system to improve and optimize lease fleet utilization, improve the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs and to allow international growth using the same ERP system throughout the company. This system consists of a wide-area network that connects our headquarters and all of our branches. Our Tempe, Arizona corporate headquarters and each branch can enter data into the system and access data on a real-time basis. We generate weekly management reports by branch with leasing volume, fleet utilization, lease rates and fleet movement. These reports allow management to monitor each branch’s performance on a daily, weekly and monthly basis. We track each portable storage unit by its serial number. Lease fleet and sales information are entered in the system daily at the branch level and verified through monthly physical inventories by branch or corporate employees. Branch salespeople also use the CRM system to track customer leads and other sales data, including information about current and prospective customers. We have made significant investments to our ERP and CRM systems over the years, and we intend to continue that investment to further optimize the features of this system for both our North American and European operations. Lease Terms Under our lease agreements, each lease has an original intended length of term at inception. However, if the customer keeps the leased unit beyond the original intended term, the lease continues on a month-to-month basis until cancelled by the customer. At the end of 2009, our steel storage containers initially have an average intended term of approximately 8 months at inception, however the average duration for these leases that have fulfilled their term agreement was 32 months to date. The average monthly rental rate on these units was approximately $104 per month. Our security, security/storage and mobile offices typically have an average intended lease term of approximately 11 months. The average duration of all office leases that have fulfilled their term agreement was 23 months in 2009. Our leases provide that the customer is responsible for the cost of delivery and pickup at lease inception. Our leases specify that the customer is liable for any damage done to the unit beyond ordinary wear and tear. However, our customers may purchase a damage waiver from us to avoid this liability in certain circumstances. This provides us with an additional source of recurring revenue. The customer’s possessions stored within the portable storage unit are typically the responsibility of the customer. Competition We face competition from several local and regional companies, as well as from national companies, in all of our current markets. We compete with several large national and international companies in our mobile office product line. Our competitors include lessors of storage units, mobile offices, used van trailers and other structures used for portable storage. We also compete with conventional fixed self-storage facilities. We compete primarily in terms of security, convenience, product quality, broad product selection and availability, lease rates and customer service. In our core portable storage business, we typically compete with Williams Scotsman, Elliot Hire, PODS, Pac-Van, 1-800-PAC-RAT, LLC, Haulaway Storage Containers, Inc., Moveable Cubicle, Speedy Hire, and a number of other national, regional and local competitors. In the mobile office business, we typically compete with ModSpace, Williams Scotsman, McGrath RentCorp and other national, regional and local companies. 13 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 1,475 full-time employees in the following major categories: Management 160 Administrative 355 Sales and marketing 270 Manufacturing 165 Drivers and storage unit handling 525 Seasonality Demand from some of our customers is somewhat seasonal. Demand for leases of our portable storage units by large retailers is stronger from September through December because these retailers need to store more inventories for the holiday season. Our retail customers usually return these leased units to us early in the following year. Other than when in a challenging economic environment, this seasonality has caused lower utilization rates for our lease fleet and a marginal decrease in cash flow during the first quarter of the year. Over the last few years, we reduced the percentage of our units we reserve for this seasonal business from the levels we allocated in earlier years, decreasing the impact of this seasonality on our operations. Access to Information Our Internet address is www.mobilemini.com. We make available at this address, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference as identified herein, certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or about April 30, 2010, which will also be available free of charge on our website. Reports of our executive officers, directors and any other persons required to file securities ownership reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available through our web site. Information contained on our web site is not part of this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. A continued economic slowdown, particularly in the non-residential construction sector of the economy, could reduce demand from some of our customers, which could negatively impact our financial results. The current recession has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has reduced demand for portable storage and mobile offices. These events have also caused substantial volatility in the stock market and layoffs and other restrictions on spending by companies in almost every business sector. These events could have a number of different effects on our business, including: • reduction in consumer and business spending, which would result in a reduction in demand for our products; • a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us or our vendors to timely supply services, thus reducing our cash flow; and • an increase in counterparty risk. Additionally, at the end of 2008 and 2009, customers in the construction industry, primarily in non-residential construction, accounted for approximately 36% and 28%, respectively, of our leased units. If the current economic slowdown in the non-residential construction sector continues, we may continue to experience less demand for leases and sales of our products. Because most of the cost of our leasing business is either fixed or semi- 14 Table of Contents variable, our margins will contract if revenue continues to fall without similar changes in expenses, which may be difficult to achieve, and which ultimately may result in having a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Global capital and credit markets conditions could have an adverse effect on our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including via our credit facility. Due to the disruptions in the global credit markets in 2009, liquidity in the debt markets has been materially impacted, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive or, in some cases, unavailable altogether. Renewed disruptions in the global credit markets or the failure of additional lending institutions could result in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing, including access to revolving lines of credit. We monitor the financial strength of our larger customers, derivative counterparties, lenders and insurance carriers on an on-going basis using publicly available information in order to evaluate our exposure to those who have or who we believe may likely experience significant threats to their ability to adequately service our needs. While we engage in borrowing and repayment activities under our revolving credit facility on an almost daily basis and have not had any disruption in our ability to access our revolving credit facility as needed, the current credit market conditions could eventually increase the likelihood that one or more of our lenders may be unable to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in the future we may need to raise additional funds to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations arising out of the agreements governing such debt. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. We face intense competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The portable storage and mobile office industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national companies like ourselves, to smaller multi-regional companies and small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. See “Business — Competition.” Some of our principal competitors are less leveraged than we are and have lower fixed costs and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things, quality and breadth of service, expertise, reliability, and the price, size, and attractiveness of our rental units. Our competitors are competing aggressively on the basis of pricing and may continue to drive prices further down. To the extent that we choose to match our competitors’ declining prices, it could harm our results of operations. To the extent that we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors’ pricing, it could also harm our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. None of our employees are presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, from time to time various unions have attempted to organize some of our employees. We cannot predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. We believe that a unionized workforce would generally increase our operating costs, divert the attention of management from servicing customers and increase the risk of work stoppages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We operate with a high amount of debt and we may incur significant additional indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive, and we operate with a high amount of debt relative to our size. In May 2007, we issued $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Notes. These notes were issued at 99.548% of par value. In connection with our acquisition of Mobile Storage Group, we assumed approximately $544.9 million of Mobile Storage Group’s indebtedness with an acquisition date fair value of $540.9 million. On June 27, 2008, we entered into an ABL Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $900.0 million on a revolving loan basis, which means that amounts repaid may be reborrowed. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $824.2 million of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Senior Notes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. The indentures governing our 6.875% Senior Notes and the 9.75% Senior Notes originally issued by MSG, which we assumed as part of our acquisition of Mobile Storage Group and, to a lesser extent our revolving credit facility agreement, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) and redeem or repurchase our capital stock. Our Senior Notes do not contain financial maintenance covenants and the financial maintenance covenants under our revolving credit facility are not applicable unless we fall below $100 million in borrowing availability. Our revolving credit facility requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indentures governing the Senior Notes, and the revolving credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the revolving credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be 16 Table of Contents immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. The amount we can borrow under our revolving credit facility depends in part on the value of the portable storage units in our lease fleet. If the value of our lease fleet declines under appraisals our lenders receive, we cannot borrow as much. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our lease fleet. We would be in breach of certain of these covenants if the value of our lease fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. See the table under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations” for disclosure regarding the amount of cash required to service our debt. We may not maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, at an opportune time, or the proceeds that we realize may not be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock is likely to be affected by: • changes in general conditions in the economy, geopolitical events or the financial markets; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • other developments affecting us, our industry, customers or competitors; • changes in demand for our products or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; • the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses, particularly those operating in the construction sectors; 17 Table of Contents • rental rate changes in response to competitive factors; • bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, thereby reducing demand for our used units; • seasonal rental patterns, with rental activity tending to be lowest in the first quarter of the year; • timing of acquisitions of companies and new location openings and related costs; • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; • possible unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies; • possible write-offs or exceptional charges due to changes in applicable accounting standards, goodwill impairment, or impairment of assets; • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the number of shares available for resale in the public markets under applicable securities laws. Fluctuations between the British pound and U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 14.7% of our total revenues in 2009 from our operations in the U.K. The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiaries are measured using the British pound as the functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from our U.K. operations and in translating our financial results back into U.S. dollars. We believe the impact on us of currency fluctuations from an operations perspective is mitigated by the fact that the majority of our expenses, capital expenditures and revenues in the U.K. are in British pounds. We do, however, have significant currency exposure as a result of translating our financial results from British pounds into U.S. dollars for purposes of financial reporting. Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiary are translated at the period end exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Our income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during each month. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound reduces the amount of income or loss we recognize on a consolidated basis from our U.K. business. In 2007, the British pound was at or near a multi-year high against the U.S. dollar, and we cannot predict the effects of further exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We are also exposed to additional currency transaction risk when our U.S. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in U.S. dollars and our U.K. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in British pounds. As exchange rates vary, our results of operations and profitability may be harmed. We do not currently hedge our currency transaction or translation exposure, nor do we have any current plans to do so. The risks we face in foreign currency transactions and translation may continue to increase as we further develop and expand our U.K. operations. Furthermore, to the extent we expand our business into other countries, we anticipate we will face similar market risks related to foreign currency translation caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those countries. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. At December 31, 2009, we had $513.2 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets after the impairment charges discussed below. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, stock price, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. In 2008, we recognized an impairment of approximately $13.7 million primarily relating to our operations in the U.K. In 2009, we did not recognize any impairment. For more information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our financial statements contained in this Annual Report. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental regulations and could incur costs relating to environmental matters. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: • the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; • the exposure to hazardous materials; and • the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, oil/fuel and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities. These laws often impose liability even if the owner, operator or lessor did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. The costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The supply and cost of used ISO containers fluctuates, which can affect our pricing and our ability to grow. As needed, we purchase, remanufacture and modify used ISO containers in order to expand our lease fleet. If used ISO container prices increase substantially, we may not be able to manufacture enough new units to grow our fleet. These price increases also could increase our expenses and reduce our earnings, particularly if we are not able (due to competitive reasons or otherwise) to raise our rental rates to absorb this increased cost. Conversely, an oversupply of used ISO containers may cause container prices to fall. Our competitors may then lower the lease rates on their storage units. As a result, we may need to lower our lease rates to remain competitive. These events would cause our revenues and our earnings to decline. The supply and cost of raw materials we use in manufacturing fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. As needed, we manufacture portable storage units to add to our lease fleet and for sale. In our manufacturing process, we purchase steel, vinyl, wood, glass and other raw materials from various suppliers. We cannot be sure that an adequate supply of these materials will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our operations and earnings. Rapid increases in raw material prices are often difficult to pass through to customers, particularly to leasing customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our profitability could decline. If raw material prices decline significantly, we may have to write down our raw materials inventory values. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition will decline. Some zoning laws in the U.S. and Canada and temporary planning permission regulations in Europe restrict the use of our portable storage and office units and therefore limit our ability to offer our products in all markets. Most of our customers use our storage units to store their goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws and temporary planning permission regulations in some of our markets do not allow some of our customers to keep portable storage and office units on their properties or do not permit portable storage units unless located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws or planning permission regulations in one or more of our markets no longer allow our units to be stored on customers’ sites, our business in that market will suffer. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our business plan. One of the most important factors in our ability to profitably execute our business plan is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel, including our CEO and operational management. Our success in attracting and retaining qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package, including the implementation of adequate drivers of retention and rewards based on performance, and work environment. The departure of any key personnel and our inability to enforce non-competition agreements could have a negative impact on our business. We may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. If we buy a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. These liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we do not manage new markets effectively, some of our new branches and acquisitions may lose money or fail, and we may have to close unprofitable locations. Closing a branch in such circumstances would likely result in additional expenses that would cause our operating results to suffer. In connection with expansion outside of the U.S., we face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, changes in political and economic conditions, and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in Europe will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth, in Europe and elsewhere, and lead to increased administrative costs. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by containers, offices or trailers rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees, (3) employment-related claims, (4) property damage, and (5) commercial claims. Our insurance policies have deductibles or self-insured retentions which would require us to expend amounts prior to taking advantage of coverage limits. Currently, we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any 20 Table of Contents class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may lead to lower revenues, as well as additional similar claims being filed. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon protection of our rights in trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights we own or license, including patents to our locking system. Our use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information and patents, or to defend against claims by third parties that our services or our use of intellectual property infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, copyright or other intellectual property infringement against us could prevent us from providing services, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a breakdown in our internal policies and procedures may lead to an unintentional disclosure of our proprietary, confidential or material non-public information, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 