ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below is a discussion of the significant risk factors applicable to the Company. Additional risk factors may develop in the future. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. 11 Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and has a stockholders’ deficit. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $373,000, assets totaling $5.5 million, liabilities totaling $11.1 million, and incurred losses from continuing operations of $1.6 million for the year then ended. We expect to continue to expend cash and incur operating losses at the current net sales levels, but to a lesser extent than the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 as certain operating expenses are expected to decline from 2007 levels. Our ability to generate cash and operating income is dependent on increasing our customer base to expand the penetration of our product technology and the realization of our lower operating expense targets. Beginning May 1, 2008, principal on the $800,000 over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital line of credit is repayable in $100,000 monthly payments. Also, starting in January 2009, monthly principal payments of $44,000 become due and payable to Laurus. On September 30, 2009 all remaining principal and interest due from the Company to Laurus on the existing financing agreements becomes due and payable. In the event that we are unable to repay, extend or refinance our debt payments in 2008 and 2009, Laurus could potentially take a number of actions as secured creditor which would have a material negative impact on the Company and its shareholders, including foreclosure, a forced sale of all or part of the Company, and/or liquidation. Further, if future financing requirements are satisfied through the issuance of equity or debt instruments, shareholders may experience additional dilution in terms of their percentage of ownership of our securities. The success of our new products depends upon customer acceptance of both the testing of semiconductor devices in strip form and the automation of the back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process. Several of our new products, including our Tapestry strip handler and other Smart Solutions products, are used to test and process semiconductor devices in strip form. Assembly of semiconductor devices in strip form is the standard industry practice. However, we cannot assure you that testing of semiconductor devices in strip form will become widely accepted by the industry. Until recently, most semiconductor manufacturers believed it was necessary to test semiconductors after they were cut from the strips because they believed the act of cutting the strips containing the semiconductor devices, referred to as singulation, could result in damage or contamination to the semiconductor devices and, as a consequence, make the prior test results unreliable. We introduced our Tapestry handling system in February 1999. In May 2000, we introduced other Smart Solutions products, which provide additional process capability for handling and testing semiconductor devices in strip form. In July of 2003, we introduced our Tapestry SC, a second-generation system. In September of 2004 we introduced our Tapestry SC SmartMark, a second-generation system, while in May 2006 we introduced Tapestry SC Tri-Temp and in July 2007 we introduced the Filmframe. Our new products are attractive to customers only if the customers can see the value of automating the test and assembly portions of their semiconductor manufacturing operations. Although semiconductor manufacturers have automated the wafer fabrication portion of their operation, or the front-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process, very few semiconductor manufacturers have invested a significant amount of capital to automate the test and assembly portions of their operations. We are introducing new products for technologies, which may not be accepted on a wide-scale basis by the industry. If either the testing of semiconductor devices in strip form or wide-scale automation of the back-end is not accepted by the industry, our net sales likely will suffer. Downturns in semiconductor industry business cycles could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our business depends heavily upon capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, with periods of capacity shortage and periods of excess capacity. In periods of excess capacity, the industry sharply cuts purchases of capital equipment, such as our products. Thus, a semiconductor industry downturn or slowdown substantially reduces our revenues and operating results and could hurt our financial condition. In the fourth quarter of 2000, the semiconductor capital equipment industry went into a severe downturn and continued through 2005. In 2006 and 2007, there was a slight upturn in the market, but the depressed market over the prior six years has negatively affected our operations and financial condition. We have offered automation solutions and, unless we effectively market our company as a provider of automation solutions, our expected financial results will suffer. We offer equipment automation solutions and software development services. These solutions and services require different marketing techniques and involve a more extensive decision-making process by customers than for our traditional handler products. We need to successfully market our automation products using different sales methods than we have previously used. 12 Our future success is dependent upon being able to successfully market our automation products. If we are not successful in effectively marketing ourselves as an equipment automation solutions provider to the semiconductor industry, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. We are a global corporation with offices and subsidiaries in certain foreign locations to support our sales and services to the global semiconductor industry and, as such, we face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Certain aspects inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: · costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties in enforcing contractuaral and intellectual property rights; · longer payment cycles; · local political and economic conditions; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including resteictions on repatriating earnings and the threat if “double taxation”; and · flucations in currency exchange rates, which can effect demand and increase costs. Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations. We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. We invest heavily in research and development efforts and our financial results depend upon the success of these efforts. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, a significant amount of time and resources developing new products and refining existing products and systems. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of new systems. Our ability to introduce and market new products successfully is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, such as design defects or changing market requirements that could delay introduction of these systems. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our products, our anticipated product orders may not materialize, or orders that do materialize may be canceled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales needed to recoup our research and development expenditures. The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 13 Recently enacted and future changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating challenges for publicly-held companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Our operating results often have large changes from period to period, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could adversely affect sales or operating results or lead to significant variability in our operating results. A variety of factors could cause this variability, including the following: · the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; · delays in, or cancellation of, significant system purchases by customers; · delays in the development, introduction and production of our products; · changes in the mix of our products and their gross margins; · new product introductions by competitors and competitive pricing pressures; · the time required for us to adjust our operating expenses to respond to changes in sales and market conditions; · the timing of any future acquisitions and their effect on our financial results; · component shortages resulting in manufacturing delays; and · pressure by customers to reduce prices, shorten delivery times and extend payment terms. We cannot predict the impact of these and other factors on our sales or operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below expectations of security analysts or investors in some future periods. Our failure to meet these expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and it may drop unexpectedly. Stock prices of companies in the semiconductor equipment industry, including ours, can swing dramatically with little relationship to operating performance. Factors, which could cause our stock price to change, include: · changes in the market’s view of the semiconductor industry in general; · changes in our quarterly operating results for the reasons set out in the previous risk factors for other reasons; · changes in our reported financial results based on accounting pronouncements; · changes in research analysts’ expectations for us or our industry or failure to meet research analysts’ estimates; · changes in the general economic conditions or developments in the semiconductor industry which affect investors confidence; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new or enhanced products and; 14 Additional factors, which may impact our results, include: · we depend upon a few customers for the majority of our revenues and a reduction in their orders could adversely affect us; · our operating results would be harmed if one of our key suppliers fails to deliver components for our products; · the loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business; · our markets are very competitive and demand for our products may decrease if additional competitors enter our markets; · our dependence upon international sales involves significant risk; · the possible adverse impact of economic or political changes in the market we serve; · our inability to obtain financing to fund continuing or expanding operations; Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the ability to trade our shares. In addition, these fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financing. 