Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results We face significant competition, and if we are not able to compete successfully our results of operations will be harmed. We face intense competition from other casinos in jurisdictions in which we operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition, marketing resources and access to lower cost sources of financing than we do. We seek to compete through promotion of our membership clubs and other marketing efforts. For example, in South Africa we emphasize Caledon’s destination resort appeal, players’ club programs, and superior service. Some or all of these efforts may not be successful, which could hurt our competitive position. In addition, a majority of the markets in which we operate in are generally not destination resort areas. The number of casinos in these markets may exceed demand, which could make it difficult for us to sustain profitability. -13- The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout much of the world. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming or liberalize their gaming rules in the near future. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our operating facilities, such gaming opportunities could attract players that might otherwise have visited our casinos. The resulting loss of revenue at our casinos may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are particularly vulnerable to competition in Colorado. If other gaming operations were permitted to open closer to Colorado Springs or Denver, our operations in Cripple Creek and Central City, respectively, could be substantially harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other entities will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, in late 2007, a large casino is expected to open in Cripple Creek. Management believes this casino will have approximately 700 slot machines and 10 table games, further diluting the Cripple Creek market. The opening of this casino could have a material adverse impact on our casino operation in Cripple Creek. We face extensive regulation and taxation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, which involve considerable expense and could harm our business. Licensing requirements. As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local, and international provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities may for any reason set forth in applicable legislation, rules and regulations limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We may not be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial fines against us or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could force us to terminate operations at an existing gaming facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, could result in us being fined or could prohibit us from successfully completing a project in which we invest. Closing facilities or an inability to expand may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our common stock and other securities, including our Austrian Depositary Certificates (“ADCs”) or common stock underlying the ADCs, file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with the right to repurchase shares of our common stock (including shares of common stock underlying our ADCs) from certain beneficial owners declared by gaming regulators to be unsuitable holders of our equity securities, and the price we pay to any such beneficial owner may be below the price such beneficial owner would otherwise accept for his or her shares of our common stock. Potential changes in regulatory environment. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or that may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For instance, in November 2003, a Colorado ballot issue was proposed that would have permitted the installation of at least 500 video lottery terminals or “VLTs” at each of the five racetracks throughout Colorado, two of which are located in Colorado Springs and Pueblo, the dominant markets for Cripple Creek. If this ballot issue had passed, our casino operations in Cripple Creek might have suffered from reduced player visits and declining revenue. There can be no assurance that future attempts will not be made to pass similar ballot issues in Colorado or other markets in which we operate. In addition, the Colorado legislature is currently considering legislation that would ban smoking in casinos. This could result in fewer customers who smoke visiting our properties in Colorado, which could adversely affect our results of operations. -14- Taxation and fees. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, provincial and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state provincial and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could materially increase our tax expenses and impair our profitability. We intend to develop and operate additional casino properties in the future, and if our development efforts are not successful our business may be harmed. We are required to obtain a gaming license for any additional facility we attempt to open (excluding casinos operating on cruise ships in international waters). We are currently licensed to operate gaming facilities in Colorado, the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal provinces of South Africa, Alberta, Canada and the Czech Republic. While our management believes that we are licensable in any jurisdiction that allows gaming operations, each licensing process is unique and requires a significant amount of funds and management time. The licensing process in any particular jurisdiction can take significant time and expense through licensing fees, background investigation costs, fees of counsel and other associated preparation costs. Moreover, should we proceed with a licensing approval process with industry partners, such industry partners would be subject to regulatory review as well. We seek to satisfy ourselves that industry partners are licensable, but cannot assure that such partners will, in fact, be licensable. Additional risks before commencing operations include the time and expense incurred and unforeseen difficulties in obtaining suitable sites, liquor licenses, building permits, materials, competent and able contractors, supplies, employees, gaming devices and related matters. In addition, certain licenses include competitive situations where, even if we are licensable, other factors such as the economic impact of gaming, financial and operational capabilities of competitors must be analyzed by regulatory authorities. In addition, political factors may make the licensing process more difficult in one or more jurisdictions. If any of our gaming license applications are denied, we may have to write off costs, which could be significant. For instance, in 2005, we expended substantial funds to develop a riverboat gaming operation in Franklin County, Iowa. The Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission voted to allow four additional licenses, none of which were for projects in Franklin County. As a result, we terminated the project and had to write-off costs of approximately $0.2 million. Even if we receive licenses to open and operate proposed new facilities, commencing operations at our proposed new casino projects will require substantial development capital. Development activities involve expenses and risks, including expenses involved in securing licenses, permits or authorizations other than those required from gaming regulators, and the risk of potential cost over-runs, construction delays, and market deterioration. In addition, our ability to attract and retain competent management and employees for any new location is critical to our success. One or more of these risks may result in any of our currently proposed properties not being successful. If we are not able to successfully commence operations at these properties, our results of operations will be harmed. -15- We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we open or acquire in the future, which could adversely impact our operations. We continually evaluate opportunities to open new properties, some of which are potentially significant in relation to our size. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating expanded or combined operations resulting from our expansion activities. The integration of any new properties we open or acquire in the future will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of our existing operations, which may interrupt the activities of those operations and could result in deteriorating performance from those operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial staff, which would increase our expenses. Difficulties in managing our worldwide operations may have an adverse impact on our business. We derive our revenue from operations located on three continents and on cruise ships operating around the world. Our management is located in the United States, South Africa and Europe. As a result of long distances, different time zones, culture, management and language differences, our worldwide operations pose risks to our business. These factors make it more challenging to manage and administer a globally-dispersed business, and increase the resources we must devote to operating under several different regulatory and legislative regimes. Moreover, economic or political instability in one or more of our markets could adversely affect our operations in those markets. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are subject to changes in international, national and local economic conditions, including changes in the economy related to future security alerts in connection with threatened or actual terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, and related to the war with Iraq, which may affect our customers' willingness to travel. Our business is fueled by discrectionary income. Recessions or downturns in the general economies in which we operate could result in fewer customers visiting our properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our quarterly operating results. Weather patterns and holidays affect our operations. For example, our Colorado casinos, which are located in mountain tourist towns, typically experience greater gaming revenues in the summer tourist season than any other time during the year. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the net operating revenue attributable to our Cripple Creek operations fluctuated from a high of $4.7 million in the third quarter to a low of $3.7 million in the fourth quarter. If we are not able to offset these seasonal declines with additional revenue from other sources, our quarterly results may vary considerably from period to period, which could cause the price of our common stock or ADCs to be volatile. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, which may hamper our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions. For instance, in August 2002, Prague experienced a devastating flood throughout the city. Public access to the city in the vicinity of Century Casino Millennium was severely limited for months following the disaster and negatively affected casino operations. High winds and blizzards limit access to our properties in North America from time to time, and hurricanes or severe storms may impact the operations of our cruise ship casino facilities. In the event weather conditions limit access to our casino properties or otherwise adversely impact our ability to operate our casinos at full capacity, our revenue will suffer, which will negatively impact our operating results. -16- Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our facilities in South Africa and Canada represent a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated and expenses incurred by these facilities are generally denominated in South African Rands and Canadian Dollars, respectively. A decrease in the value of either of these currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar would decrease the revenue and operating profit from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars, which would adversely affect our consolidated results and could cause the price of our common stock and ADCs to decrease. In addition, we expect to expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, we will face similar exchange rate risk with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries as a result of any increases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. Furthermore, we have a significant amount of cash denominated in Euros. We do not currently hedge our exposure to fluctuations of these foreign currencies, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent on the services of Erwin Haitzmann, our Chairman and Co Chief Executive Officer, Peter Hoetzinger, our Vice Chairman and Co Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on our business. We intend to finance our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us, which limits our operating flexibility. Our various credit agreements require us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, including leverage ratios, total fixed charge coverages and minimum annualized EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or a variant thereof). In addition, these agreements restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. There can be no assurances that the Company or its subsidiaries would be able to obtain a waiver to these restrictive covenants if necessary. If we fail to comply with the restrictions contained in these credit agreements, the resulting event of default could result in a lender accelerating the repayment of all outstanding amounts due under these agreements. There can be no assurances that the Company would be successful in obtaining alternative sources of funding to repay these obligations should this event occur. -17- Our casino concessionaire agreements may be terminated at any time. In addition to our land-based casinos, we currently operate casinos on six cruise ships. We operate the casinos on the cruise ships pursuant to casino concessionaire agreements with three different cruise ship charter companies. The contracts with the cruise ship operators provide for cancellation with a limited notice period in the event of our default under the respective agreements. Accordingly, we could lose the revenue stream associated with these contracts on short notice, which may adversely affect our operating results. We may be required in the future to record impairment losses related to the goodwill we currently carry on our balance sheet. We had $12.3 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2006 and $8.7 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Accounting rules require that we make certain estimates and assumptions related to our determinations as to the future recoverability of the goodwill we report on our balance sheet. If we were to determine that the value of the goodwill carried on our balance sheet is impaired, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the value of our goodwill, which would adversely affect our results during the period in which we recorded the impairment charge. Service of process and enforceability of certain foreign judgments is limited. We are incorporated in the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets are located in North America and South Africa. In addition, some of our directors and officers are residents of the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located in the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for European investors who hold ADCs to effect service of process within Austria upon the Company or such persons or to enforce judgments obtained against them in such courts based on civil liability provisions of the European securities laws. Outside investors own preference shares in our Caledon, South Africa operation, which may reduce our return on investment from that property. Century Resorts Limited (“CRL”) owns 100% of the common equity of CCAL, our South African subsidiary that owns and operates the Caledon Hotel, Spa and Casino. Two unrelated third parties own preference shares that entitle them to a priority on distributions in certain circumstances. The preference shares are not cumulative, nor are they redeemable. The preference shares entitle the holders of such shares to total dividends of 20% of the after-tax profits of each financial year directly attributable to the Caledon casino business in that year, subject to, as determined by the directors of CCAL in their sole and absolute discretion, any working capital, capital expenditure requirements, loan obligations and liabilities attributable to the casino business. These dividend rights would reduce the return that we would otherwise receive from our investment in this property. Furthermore, should the casino business be sold or otherwise dissolved, the preferred shareholders would be entitled to 20% of any surplus directly attributable to the casino business, net of all liabilities attributable to the casino business. In January 2006, CCAL authorized a new class of preferred shares with a lower dividend rate and liquidation preference than the existing class of preferred shares, and CCAL is offering the new class of preferred shares for the shares currently outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, one preference shareholder exchanged their original preference shares for the new class of preference shares. The remaining preference shareholder has not elected to exchange their shares, thus retaining the original preferred shares with a 10% dividend rate and liquidation preference. -18- Risks Related to our Common Stock and the ADCs Certain anti-takeover measures we have adopted may limit our ability to consummate transactions that some of our security holders might otherwise support. We have a fair price business combination provision in our certificate of incorporation, which requires approval of certain business combinations and other transactions by holders of 80% of our outstanding shares of voting stock. We also have adopted a stockholder rights plan that allows our stockholders to purchase significant amounts of our common stock at a discount in the event any third party acquires a significant ownership interest in us or attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions generally have the effect of requiring that any party seeking to acquire us negotiate with our Board of Directors in order to structure a business combination with us. This may have the effect of depressing the price of our common stock, and may similarly depress the price of the ADCs, due to the possibility that certain transactions that our stockholders might favor could be precluded by these provisions. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock or ADCs in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our shares of common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock, or the ADCs, in the foreseeable future. Our various credit agreements prohibit us from paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock if payment of such dividends would cause us to violate financial covenants stated in the credit agreements. Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly. Our common stock trades in the U.S. on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is characterized by small issuers and a lack of significant trading volumes relative to other U.S. markets. These factors may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. For instance, the trading price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market varied from a low of $8.31 to a high of $12.11 during 2006. Our common stock also trades on the Vienna Stock Exchange in the form of ADCs. For a small company such as ours, having listings on two securities markets could decrease the trading volume on each market to levels that might increase the volatility of the trading price of our securities. Increased trading focus of our securities on one trading market could affect and significantly decrease the liquidity on the other market, which could make it difficult or impossible for an investor to sell our common stock or ADCs on the market with declining value. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock and dilute the holdings of current investors. If we issue and sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or investors become concerned that substantial sales might occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease. If such sales reduce the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets may be adversely affected, and it may be difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price which you deem appropriate. In the event that we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, including shares that may be issued upon exercise of options and other rights granted under our employee benefit plans, holders of our common stock may experience future dilution. -19- Because we are a foreign corporation to the Vienna Stock Exchange, the Austrian and other European takeover regimes do not apply to our company. Austrian takeover law does not apply to foreign corporations listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange. If an investor proposes to take over our Company, Delaware law (including laws relating to the enforceability of our stockholder rights plan) would apply, and neither our stockholders nor our ADC holders could rely on the Austrian or any other European takeover regime to apply to such a takeover. As a result, if you are a holder of our ADCs you may be forced to sell the ADCs at a price that is less than you paid or that is less than you otherwise would accept. Investors whose currency is not denominated in the same currency as to which their common stock or ADCs are traded will incur exposure to fluctuating exchange rates. For investors whose currency is not denominated in the same currency as to which their common stock or ADCs are traded, fluctuations in the value of the common stock or ADCs currency against the investor’s currency will affect the market value of our shares and the ADCs, expressed in the investor’s currency. In addition, such fluctuations may also affect the conversion into the investor’s currency of cash dividends and other distributions paid on our shares and ADCs, if any, including proceeds received upon a sale or other disposition of our common stock and ADCs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 