ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement about Forward Looking Statements Our discussion and analysis in this Annual Report, in other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in public statements of our officers and corporate spokespersons contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current events. They include words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” and other words of similar meaning in connection with discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include statements relating to future actions, acquisition and growth strategy, synergies and cost savings anticipated from acquisitions and mergers, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. Forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We provide the following discussion 13 Table of Contents of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Mobile Mini could also be adversely affected by other factors besides those listed here. A continued economic slowdown, particularly in the non-residential construction sector of the economy, could reduce demand from some of our customers, which could negatively impact our financial results. The recent global financial events have resulted in the consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking industries and have substantially reduced the ability of companies to obtain financing. These events have also caused a substantial reduction in the stock market and layoffs and other restrictions on spending by companies in almost every business sector. These events could have a number of different effects on our business, including: • reduction in consumer and business spending, which would result in a reduction in demand for our products; • a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us or our vendors to timely supply services, thus reducing our cash flow; and • an increase in counterparty risk. Additionally, at the end of 2007 and 2008, customers in the construction industry, primarily in non-residential construction, accounted for approximately 43% and 36%, respectively, of our leased units. If the current economic slowdown in the non-residential construction sector continues, it is likely that we would experience less demand for leases and sales of our products. Also, because most of the cost of our leasing business is either fixed or semi variable, this would cause our margins to contract and the adverse affect on operating results would be more pronounced. Global capital and credit markets conditions could have an adverse effect on our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including our credit facility. Due to the ongoing disruptions in the global credit markets, liquidity in the debt markets has been materially impacted, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive or, in some cases, unavailable altogether. Prolonged disruptions in the global credit markets or the failure of additional lending institutions could result in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing, including access to revolving lines of credit. We monitor the financial strength of our larger customers, derivative counterparties, lenders and insurance carriers on an on-going basis using publicly available information in order to evaluate our exposure to those who have or who we believe may likely experience significant threats to their ability to adequately service our needs. While we engage in borrowing and repayment activities under our revolving credit facility on an almost daily basis and have not had any disruption in our ability to access our revolving credit facility as needed, the current credit market conditions could eventually increase the likelihood that one or more of our lenders may be unable to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in the future we may need to raise additional funds to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger transaction with Mobile Storage Group, and the continuing integration process could adversely impact our ongoing operations. We acquired Mobile Storage Group with the expectation that the merged operations would result in various benefits, including, among other things, an expanded customer base and ongoing cost savings and operating 14 Table of Contents efficiencies. The continued success of the merged operations will depend, in part, on our ability to realize such anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of our company and Mobile Storage Group. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amounts of expected revenues of the combined company. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. None of our employees are presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, from time to time various unions have attempted to organize some of our employees. We cannot predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. We believe that a unionized workforce would generally increase our operating costs, divert the attention of management from servicing customers and increase the risk of work stoppages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We operate with a high amount of debt and we may incur significant additional indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive, and we operate with a high amount of debt relative to our size. In May 2007, we issued $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Notes. These notes were issued at 99.548% of par value. In connection with our acquisition of Mobile Storage Group, we assumed approximately $544.9 million of Mobile Storage Group’s indebtedness with an acquisition date fair value of $540.9 million. On June 27, 2008, we entered into an ABL Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $900.0 million on a revolving loan basis which means that amounts repaid may be reborrowed. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Senior Notes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. The indentures governing our 6.875% Senior Notes and the 9.75% Senior Notes originally issued by MSG which we assumed as part of the Merger and, to a lesser extent, our revolving credit facility agreements contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) and redeem or repurchase our capital stock. Our Senior Notes 15 Table of Contents do not contain financial maintenance covenants and the financial maintenance covenants under our revolving credit facility are not applicable unless we fall below $100 million in borrowing availability. Our revolving credit facility requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indentures governing the Senior Notes, and the revolving credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the revolving credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. The amount we can borrow under our revolving credit facility depends in part on the value of the portable storage units in our lease fleet. If the value of our lease fleet declines under appraisals our lenders receive, we cannot borrow as much. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our lease fleet. We would breach some of these covenants if the value of our lease fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet. We may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. If we buy a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. These liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we do not manage our growth effectively, some of our new branches and acquisitions may lose money or fail, and we may have to close unprofitable locations. Closing a branch in such circumstances would likely result in additional expenses that would cause our operating results to suffer. In connection with expansion outside of the U.S., we face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, changes in political and economic conditions, 16 Table of Contents and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in Europe will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth, in Europe and elsewhere, and lead to increased administrative costs. Fluctuations between the British pound and U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 12.8% of our total revenues in 2008 from our operations in the U.K. The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiaries are measured using the British pound as the functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from our U.K. operations and in translating our financial results back into U.S. dollars. We believe the impact on us of currency fluctuations from an operations perspective is mitigated by the fact that the majority of our expenses, capital expenditures and revenues in the U.K. are in British pounds. We do, however, have significant currency exposure as a result of translating our financial results from British pounds into U.S. dollars for purposes of financial reporting. Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiary are translated at the period end exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Our income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during each month. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound reduces the amount of income or loss we recognize from our U.K. business. In 2007, the British pound was at or near a multi-year high against the U.S. dollar, and we cannot predict the effects of further exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We are also exposed to additional currency transaction risk when our U.S. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in U.S. dollars and our U.K. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in British pounds. As exchange rates vary, our results of operations and profitability may be harmed. We do not currently hedge our currency transaction or translation exposure, nor do we have any current plans to do so. The risks we face in foreign currency transactions and translation may continue to increase as we further develop and expand our U.K. operations. Furthermore, to the extent we expand our business into other countries, we anticipate we will face similar market risks related to foreign currency translation caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those countries. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. At December 31, 2008, we had $492.7 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets after the impairment charges discussed below. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, stock price, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. At December 31, 2008, we recognized an impairment of approximately $13.7 million primarily relating to our operations in the U.K. For more information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our financial statements contained in this Annual Report. We are subject to environmental regulations and could incur costs relating to environmental matters. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: • the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; • the exposure to hazardous materials; and • the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, oil/fuel and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or 17 Table of Contents otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities. These laws often impose liability even if the owner, operator or lessor did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. The costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The supply and cost of used ocean-going containers fluctuates, and this can affect our pricing and our ability to grow. As needed, we purchase, remanufacture and modify used ocean-going containers in order to expand our lease fleet. If used ocean-going container prices increase substantially, we may not be able to manufacture enough new units to grow our fleet. These price increases also could increase our expenses and reduce our earnings, particularly if we are not able (due to competitive reasons or otherwise) to raise our rental rates to absorb this increased cost. Conversely, an oversupply of used ocean-going containers may cause container prices to fall. Our competitors may then lower the lease rates on their storage units. As a result, we may need to lower our lease rates to remain competitive. This would cause our revenues and our earnings to decline. The supply and cost of raw materials we use in manufacturing fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. As needed, we manufacture portable storage units to add to our lease fleet and for sale. In our manufacturing process, we purchase steel, vinyl, wood, glass and other raw materials from various suppliers. We cannot be sure that an adequate supply of these materials will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our operations and earnings. Rapid increases in raw material prices are often difficult to pass through to customers, particularly to leasing customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our profitability could decline. If raw material prices decline significantly, we may have to write down our raw materials inventory values. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition will decline. Some zoning laws in the U.S. and Canada and temporary planning permission regulations in Europe restrict the use of our portable storage and office units and therefore limit our ability to offer our products in all markets. Most of our customers use our storage units to store their goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws and temporary planning permission regulations in some of our markets do not allow some of our customers to keep portable storage and office units on their properties or do not permit portable storage units unless located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws or planning permission regulations in one or more of our markets no longer allow our units to be stored on customers’ sites, our business in that market will suffer. We depend on a few key management persons. We are substantially dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of Steven G. Bunger, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark E. Funk, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Jody Miller, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of any of these officers or our other key management persons could harm our business and prospects for growth. 18 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock is likely to be affected by: • changes in general conditions in the economy, geopolitical events or the financial markets; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • other developments affecting us, our industry, customers or competitors; • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the number of shares available for resale in the public markets under applicable securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 