Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, or any risks described elsewhere in or incorporated by reference in this report, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business and Operations We face significant competition, and if we are not able to compete successfully, our results of operations will be harmed. We face intense competition from other casinos in jurisdictions in which we operate and destination resorts. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition, marketing resources and access to lower cost sources of financing than we do. We seek to compete through promotion of our players’ clubs and other marketing efforts. For example, for our casino in Edmonton, Canada we emphasize the casino’s showroom, heated parking, players’ club program, and superior service. These marketing efforts may not be successful, which could hurt our competitive position. The markets in which we operate are generally not destination resort areas and rely on a local customer base as well as tourists during peak seasons. The number of casinos in our markets may exceed demand, which could make it difficult for us to sustain profitability. The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout much of the world. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming or liberalize their gaming rules in the near future. In addition, there has been increased discussion recently about potential legalized Internet gaming in the U.S. at the national or state levels, in part due to the interest in raising tax revenue. For example, Nevada recently enacted new regulations to allow the state’s casino companies to operate Internet poker websites limited to players within Nevada’s borders, and the U.S. Department of Justice released an opinion that the Interstate Wire Act of 1961 applies only to sports-related gambling activities in interstate and foreign commerce. This opinion, in conjunction with the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, may increase non-sport related Internet gambling. Any additional gaming opportunities that become available in our markets, such as video lottery terminals that have been proposed for Colorado race tracks, could attract players that might otherwise have visited our casinos. The resulting loss of revenue at our casinos may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other entities in any of the markets in which we operate will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. We are particularly vulnerable to competition in Colorado. If other gaming operations were permitted to open closer to Colorado Springs or Denver, our operations in Cripple Creek and Central City, respectively, could be substantially harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on us. We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, which involve considerable expense and could harm our business. As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local, and international provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities may, for any reason set forth in applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We may not be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial fines against us or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could force us to terminate operations at an existing gaming facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, could result in us 16 being fined or could prohibit us from successfully completing a project in which we invest. Closing facilities or an inability to expand may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face extensive taxation from gaming and regulatory authorities. Potential changes to the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the results of our operations. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue to a jurisdiction through taxation and fees is one of the primary reasons jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. For instance, the Colorado constitution permits a gaming tax of up to 40% on adjusted gross gaming proceeds. The current gaming tax in Colorado established by the Colorado Gaming Commission is a graduated rate of 0.25% to 20% on adjusted gross gaming proceeds, where casinos pay a higher percentage as their adjusted gross proceeds increase. In addition, negative economic conditions could intensify the efforts of U.S., state, provincial and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes or introduction of additional gaming opportunities. Potential changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect the results of our operations. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or that may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of the gaming industry that results in increased competition and any restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to record an impairment of our assets. We may be unable to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations or potential acquisitions. While we have a significant amount of cash currently on hand, we may not be able to obtain funding when we need it on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. In addition, the amount of capital that we are able to raise often depends on variables that are beyond our control, such as the share price of our stock and its trading volume. Funding may be impacted by the global economic, credit and stock market conditions. As a result, we may not be able to secure financing on terms attractive to us, in a timely manner or at all. If we are able to consummate a financing arrangement, the amount raised may not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs and may be highly dilutive to our current stockholders. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to reduce, dispose of or eliminate certain operations. The BMO Credit Agreement imposes covenants that limit our operating flexibility, and a default could have a material adverse effect on us. In May 2012, our Canadian subsidiaries entered into the BMO Credit Agreement, which has a term of five years and is guaranteed by the Company. The BMO Credit Agreement contains a number of significant financial covenants applicable to the Canadian subsidiaries, in addition to covenants restricting their incurrence of additional debt. These restrictions will limit the subsidiaries’ ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. A breach of any covenant in the BMO Credit Agreement would result in an event of default under that agreement after any applicable grace periods. An event of default, if not waived or cured, could cause the lender to accelerate the repayment of all outstanding amounts due under the agreement, foreclose on the security granted under the agreement and enforce the Company’s obligations under its guarantee. There can be no assurances that we or our subsidiaries would be able to obtain a waiver of an event of default or modification of a covenant if necessary, or otherwise obtain alternative sources of funding to repay the obligation if a default occurred. Any such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. 17 We intend to make a loan to the REC project in Calgary, and if the loan defaults, our business may be adversely affected. CCE has agreed to loan to UHA up to CAD 13 million ($13 million) for the exclusive use of developing and operating the REC project as various stages of the REC are completed. The loan is secured by the assets of the project. If the project is not completed and loan advances have been made, CCE would have the right to foreclose on any assets purchased. However, in those circumstances the value of the project assets may not be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding loan amount. In addition, the REC project may not be successful, which would adversely affect UHA’s ability to repay the loan. The failure of UHA to repay the loan could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We intend to develop and operate additional casino properties in the future, and if our development efforts are not successful our business may be adversely affected. We regularly review opportunities to develop new casino properties. We may not be successful in obtaining the rights to develop such properties, and as a result, we may incur significant costs for which we will receive no return. Even if we are successful in obtaining the rights to develop new casino properties, commencing operations at new casino projects may require substantial development capital. This could be the case, for example, with the proposed REC project in Calgary. Development activities involve expenses and risks, including expenses involved in securing licenses, permits or authorizations other than those required from gaming regulators, and the risk of potential cost over-runs, construction delays, and market deterioration. Additional risks before commencing operations include the time and expense incurred and unforeseen difficulties in obtaining suitable sites, liquor licenses, building permits, materials, competent and able contractors, supplies, employees, gaming devices and related matters. We may pursue gaming opportunities that would require us to obtain a gaming license. While our management believes that we are licensable in any jurisdiction that allows gaming operations, each licensing process is unique and requires a significant amount of funds and management time. The licensing process in any particular jurisdiction can take significant time and expense through licensing fees, background investigation costs, fees of counsel and other associated preparation costs. Moreover, if we proceed with a licensing approval process with industry partners, such industry partners would be subject to regulatory review as well. We seek to find industry partners that are licensable, but cannot assure that such partners will, in fact, be licensable. Certain licenses include competitive situations where, even if we and our industry partners are licensable, other factors such as the economic impact of gaming, financial and operational capabilities of competitors must be analyzed by regulatory authorities. In addition, political factors may make the licensing process more difficult. If any of our gaming license applications are denied, we may have to write off costs related to our investment in such application processes, which could be significant. In addition, our ability to attract and retain competent management and employees for any new location is critical to our success. One or more of these risks may result in any new gaming opportunity not being successful. If we are not able to successfully commence operations at these properties, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may experience construction delays during our expansion or development projects, which could adversely affect our operations. From time to time we may commence construction projects at our properties. We also evaluate other expansion opportunities as they become available and we may, in the future, engage in additional construction projects as part of our expansion of existing casinos. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based on budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can substantially increase costs or delay completion of a project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant budget overruns or delays with respect to expansion and development projects could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, construction at our operating casinos may disrupt our customer’s experience and cause a decline in our revenue. 18 We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we open or acquire in the future, which could adversely impact our operations. We continually evaluate opportunities to open new properties, some of which are potentially significant in relation to our size. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating expanded or combined operations resulting from our expansion activities. The integration of any new properties we open or acquire in the future will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of our existing operations, which may interrupt the activities of those operations and could result in deteriorating performance from those operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial staff, which would increase our expenses. Difficulties in managing our worldwide operations may have an adverse impact on our business. In 2012, we derived our revenue principally from operations located on two continents and on cruise ships operating around the world. Our management is located in the United States and Europe. We are also listed on two stock exchanges, the NASDAQ Capital Market and the Vienna Stock Exchange. As a result of long distances, different time zones, culture, management, foreign currency and language differences, our worldwide operations pose risks to our business, especially for a smaller company such as ours. These factors make it more challenging to manage and administer a globally-dispersed business, increase the resources we must devote to operating under several different regulatory and legislative regimes and realize gains/losses from foreign currency exchange rates (See “Governmental Regulation and Licensing” in Item 1, “Business”). This business model also increases our costs. We may continue to be adversely affected by reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of a world economic downturn. Our business operations are impacted by international, national and local economic conditions, such as the recent U.S. and international recession and the current European sovereign debt crisis. The volatile global economic environment has had and is continuing to have negative effects on our business because our business is largely impacted by discretionary customer spending. Recessions and downturns in the general economies of the countries in which we operate have resulted in reduced consumer spending and fewer customers visiting our properties, and have adversely affected our results of operations. Management believes that weak economic conditions may continue to negatively affect our results and operations in 2013. We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our quarterly operating results. Weather patterns and holidays affect our operations. For example, our Colorado casinos, which are located in mountain tourist towns, typically experience greater gaming revenues in the summer tourist season than any other time during the year. During the year ended December 31, 2012, net operating revenue attributable to our Colorado operations fluctuated from a low of $6.9 million in the fourth quarter to a high of $8.4 million in the third quarter. If we are not able to offset these seasonal declines with additional revenue from other properties, our quarterly results may suffer. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. We expended approximately $1.7 million for utilities for all of our operations in 2012. Substantial increases in the cost of electricity and natural gas will negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could reduce the disposable income of our customers and cause a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties, which would negatively impact our revenues. Fuel price increases also could discourage customers from driving to our casinos, particularly at Cripple Creek and Central City, which are not located in metropolitan areas. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but this impact could be material to our results of operations. 19 Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, which may hamper our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reductions in the number of customers who visit our properties because of severe weather conditions. High winds, blizzards and sub-zero temperatures, such as those experienced in Colorado, Alberta and Poland from time to time, can limit access to our properties. If weather conditions limit access to our casino properties or otherwise adversely impact our ability to operate our casinos at full capacity, our revenue will suffer, which will negatively impact our operating results. The Waldo Canyon wildfire, which occurred in and near Colorado Springs, Colorado in late June and early July 2012, had a significant negative impact on our business in Cripple Creek during the second quarter of 2012. Several thousand people in Colorado Springs, the metropolitan area that our Cripple Creek casino primarily serves, were evacuated and the main highway to the casino, Highway 24, was closed for eight days from June 24, 2012 through July 1, 2012. We estimate that this event adversely affected our revenues for the second quarter by $0.2 million. We maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain severe weather conditions. However, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitations on the coverage period for business interruption. Due to these variables, we may not be able to fully insure such losses, or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from severe weather conditions. Business interruption insurance did not apply to the Waldo Canyon fire because access to Cripple Creek was not blocked from the less traveled highways west and south of the town. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our casinos in Canada and our equity interest in Casinos Poland represent a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated and expenses incurred by these operations are generally denominated in Canadian dollars and Polish Zloty, respectively. A decrease in the value of either of these currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar would decrease the operating profit from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars, which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, we may expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, we could face similar exchange rate risk with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries as a result of any increases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. We do not currently hedge our exposure to fluctuations of these foreign currencies, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent on the services of Erwin Haitzmann and Peter Hoetzinger, our Co Chief Executive Officers, and other members of our senior management team. The employment agreements with Erwin Haitzmann and Peter Hoetzinger provide that, under some circumstances, the departure of one executive could allow the other to leave for cause. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry or other technological conditions could impose additional costs on us. The majority of our revenues are generated from slot machines at our casinos. At our Colorado properties, we own or lease our slot machines through participation agreements. At our Canadian properties, the AGLC owns or leases slot machines through participation agreements. It is important for competitive reasons that we offer popular and up-to-date slot machine games to our guests at all of our casinos. 20 Slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation agreements in order to acquire the machines. Generally, a participation agreement is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. Participation agreements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation agreements that are more expensive than the costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines in Colorado. In Canada, the AGLC is faced with this same risk. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation costs, it could hurt our profitability. We may be required in the future to record impairment losses related to assets we currently carry on our balance sheet. We have $111 million of long lived assets including $4.9 million of goodwill, $3.3 million equity investment and $100 million in property and equipment as of December 31, 2012. Accounting rules require that we make certain estimates and assumptions related to our determinations as to the future recoverability of these assets. If we were to determine that the values of the long lived assets carried on our balance sheet are impaired, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the value of these assets, which would adversely affect our results during the period in which we recorded the impairment charge. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The current U.S. administration has made public statements indicating that is has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed a wide variety of potential changes. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the U.S. until those earnings are repatriated to the U.S., could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. In addition, the cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain outside of the U.S. could be affected. Due to our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. Uncertainties in Polish tax laws and other Polish laws and regulations may lead to additional liabilities Polish tax laws and other Polish laws and regulations change frequently, and frequently there is no reference to established regulations or cases. The current laws and regulations also have ambiguities that lead to differences in interpretations between authorities and between authorities and companies. Taxes or other payments may frequently be inspected by Polish authorities that are authorized to impose significant fines, extra liabilities and interest for underpayments. As a result, the tax risk is higher in Poland than in countries with better-developed tax systems. Polish tax payments may be inspected for up to five years. As a result, the amounts included in the financial statements for Polish taxes may change at a later date after the final amounts are determined, and other Polish laws and regulations may lead to additional liabilities. 21 Our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we have performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012, management identified a material weakness during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 related to the absence of a process to substantiate and support tax positions taken related to our international operations and international legal entity structure. This material weakness was remediated during the first quarter of 2012. If in the future, we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements or other errors and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could increase our chance of fraud, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures, each of which could negatively impact our business, profitability and financial condition. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Such sanctions or investigations would require significant additional financial and management resources, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, our business and financial condition could be harmed, and the market price of our stock could decline. Our reputation and business may be harmed by cyber security breaches, and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our customers', our business partners' or our own information or other breaches of our information security. We make use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer information, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for marketing and promotional purposes, is a critical element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit customer information, or those of service providers, or our employee or business information may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security, or that of a third party service provider or business partner, or by actions or inactions by our employees. As a result, information of our customers, third party service providers or business partners or our business information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their or our consent. Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, customers' or business partners' information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a serious impact on our reputation and may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. 22 Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Austrian Depositary Certificates Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly. Our common stock trades in the U.S. on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which consists of relatively small issuers and a lack of significant trading volumes relative to other U.S. markets. These factors may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. For instance, the trading price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market in 2011 and 2012 varied from a high of $3.80 to a low of $2.11. Our common stock also trades on the Vienna Stock Exchange in the form of Austrian Depositary Certificates (“ADCs”). For a small company such as ours, having listings on two securities markets could decrease the trading volume on each market to levels that might increase the volatility of the trading price of our securities. Increased trading focus of our securities on one trading market could affect and significantly decrease the liquidity of our securities on the other market, which could make it difficult or impossible for an investor to sell our common stock or ADCs on the market with declining value. Certain anti-takeover measures we have adopted may limit our ability to consummate transactions that some of our security holders might otherwise support. We have a fair price business combination provision in our certificate of incorporation, which requires approval of certain business combinations and other transactions by holders of 80% of our outstanding shares of voting stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions generally have the effect of requiring that any party seeking to acquire us negotiate with our board of directors in order to structure a business combination with us. This may have the effect of depressing the price of our common stock, and may similarly depress the price of the ADCs, due to the possibility that certain transactions that our stockholders might favor could be precluded by these provisions. Because we are a foreign corporation listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange, the Austrian and other European takeover regimes do not apply to us. Austrian takeover law does not apply to foreign corporations listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange. If an investor proposes to take us over, Delaware law would apply, and neither our stockholders nor our ADC holders could rely on the Austrian or any other European takeover regime to influence such a takeover. As a result, a holder of our ADCs may be forced to sell the ADCs at a price that is less than the price paid by such holder or that is less than what such holder otherwise would accept. Service of process and enforceability of certain foreign judgments is limited. We are incorporated in the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets are located in North America. In addition, some of our directors and officers are residents of the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located in the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for European investors who hold ADCs to affect service of process within Austria upon us or our affiliates in the U.S. or to enforce judgments obtained against us or our affiliates in Austrian or U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the European securities laws. 23 Regulation Risk Related to Stockholders Stockholders may be required to dispose of their shares of our common stock or shares of common stock underlying our ADCs if they are found unsuitable by U.S. gaming authorities. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our common stock and other securities, including our ADCs or common stock underlying the ADCs, file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability, and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with the right to repurchase shares of our common stock (including shares of common stock underlying our ADCs) from certain beneficial owners declared by gaming regulators to be unsuitable holders of our equity securities, and the price we pay to any such beneficial owner may be below the price such beneficial owner would otherwise accept for his or her shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 24 