Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results Substantially all of our net operating revenue is derived from our Cripple Creek, Colorado and Caledon, South Africa casinos, and any factors that adversely impact one or both of these facilities may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Approximately 91% of our net operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was derived from our casinos in Cripple Creek and Caledon. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue for the immediate future will continue to be derived from our operations at these two facilities. If new competitors enter one of these markets or economic conditions in one of these regions deteriorate or a business interruption to one of these facilities occurs, our revenue could decline significantly, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock or Austrian Depositary Certificates (“ADCs”). We face significant competition, and if we are not able to compete successfully our results of operations will be harmed. We face intense competition from other casinos in Cripple Creek, Colorado and in the Western Cape region of South Africa. Competitors in Cripple Creek include some casinos of similar size to or larger than ours and many other smaller casinos. In South Africa, we compete with a much larger casino in Cape Town, and to a lesser extent with two smaller casinos. By the end of 2006, we expect to be competing against a new casino in Worcester, an approximate 45 minute drive from Caledon. We seek to compete in the Colorado market through promotion of the Womacks Gold Club and other marketing efforts, and in South Africa by emphasizing Caledon’s destination resort appeal, players’ club programs, and by superior service. Some or all of these efforts may not be successful, which could hurt our competitive position. In addition, the primary market served by our Cripple Creek facility is Colorado Springs, Colorado, which is 45 miles away, and Cripple Creek is generally not a destination resort. The number of casino and hotel operations in Cripple Creek may exceed market demand, which could make it difficult for us to sustain profitability. - 18 - Index The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, many of which have financial and other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout much of the world. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming or liberalize their gaming rules in the near future. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our operating facilities, such gaming opportunities could attract players that might otherwise visit our casinos. The resulting loss of revenue at our casino may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are particularly vulnerable to competition at our Cripple Creek facility. If other gaming operations were to open closer to Colorado Springs, our operations in Cripple Creek could be substantially harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other entities will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. We face extensive regulation and taxation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, which involve considerable expense and could harm our business. Licensing requirements. As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local, and in South Africa, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Colorado Division of Gaming or the Western Cape Gambling and Racing Board, may for any reason set forth in applicable legislation, rules and regulations limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We may not be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. For instance, we expended substantial funds to develop a riverboat gaming operation in Franklin County, Iowa and did not receive a gaming license from the appropriate regulatory agency. As a result, we were forced to terminate the project. In addition, we have invested in a casino project in the West Rand Area outside Johannesburg, South Africa and the granting of the license for this project has been delayed by litigation. It is uncertain when, if ever, the licensing process for this project will be completed. Our licenses for Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and Central City, Colorado are pending and may not be issued. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial fines against us or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could force us to terminate operations at an existing gaming facility, or could prohibit us from successfully completing a project in which we invest. Closing facilities or an inability to expand may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our common stock and other securities, including ADCs or common stock underlying the ADCs, file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with the right to repurchase shares of our common stock (including shares of common stock underlying ADCs) from certain beneficial owners declared by gaming regulators to be unsuitable holders of our equity securities, and the price we pay to any such beneficial owner may be below the price such beneficial owner would otherwise accept for his or her shares of our common stock. - 19 - Index Potential changes in regulatory environment. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or that may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For instance, in November 2003, a Colorado ballot issue was proposed that would have permitted the installation of at least 500 video lottery terminals or “VLTs” at each of the five racetracks throughout Colorado, two of which are located in Colorado Springs and Pueblo, the dominant markets for Cripple Creek. If this ballot issue had passed, our casino operations in Cripple Creek might have suffered from reduced player visits and declining revenue. There can be no assurance that future attempts will not be made to pass similar ballot issues in Colorado or other markets in which we operate. Taxation and fees. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, provincial and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state provincial and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could materially increase our tax expenses and impair our profitability. We intend to develop and operate additional casino properties in the future, and if our development efforts are not successful our business may be harmed. We are currently developing and intend to operate a casino and hotel in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, a casino and hotel in Central City, Colorado, a casino and hotel in Newcastle, South Africa, and we have invested in a proposed casino project in an area known as West Rand, outside Johannesburg, South Africa. We have also agreed in principle to the joint development of a project in Croydon, United Kingdom. Each of these projects have pending applications for gaming licenses, and we would be required to obtain a gaming license for any additional facility we attempt to open. Each licensing process is unique and requires a significant amount of funds and management time. The licensing process in any particular jurisdiction can take significant time and expense through licensing applications and fees, background investigations and related costs, fees of counsel, possible legal challenges and other associated processes and preparation costs. In addition, political factors may make the licensing process more difficult in one or more jurisdictions. If any of our gaming license applications are denied, we may have to write off costs, which could be significant. For instance, we invested approximately $0.2 million in the proposed project we were jointly pursuing in Franklin County, Iowa before the license for the project was denied. Even if we receive licenses to open and operate proposed new facilities, commencing operations at our proposed new casino projects will require substantial development. Development activities involve expenses and risks, including expenses involved in securing licenses, permits or authorizations other than those required from gaming regulators, and the risk of potential cost over-runs, construction delays, and market deterioration. One or more of these risks may result in any of our currently proposed properties not being successful. If we are not able to successfully commence operations at these properties, our results of operations will be harmed. - 20 - Index We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we open or acquire in the future, which could adversely impact our operations. We continually evaluate opportunities to open new properties, some of which are potentially significant in relation to our size. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating expanded or combined operations resulting from our expansion activities. The integration of any new properties we open or acquire in the future will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of our existing operations, which may interrupt the activities of those operations and could result in deteriorating performance from those operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial staff, which would increase our expenses. Difficulties in managing our worldwide operations may have an adverse impact on our business. We derive our revenue from operations located on three continents and on cruise ships operating around the world. Our management is located in the U.S., South Africa and Continental Europe (Czech Republic and Austria). As a result of long distances, different time zones, culture, management and language differences, our worldwide operations pose risks to our business. These factors make it more challenging to manage and administer a globally-dispersed business, and increase the resources we must devote to operating under several different regulatory and legislative regimes. Moreover, economic or political instability in one or more of our markets could adversely affect our operations in those markets. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are subject to changes in international, national and local economic conditions, including changes in the economy related to future security alerts in connection with threatened or actual terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, and related to the war with Iraq, which may affect our customers' willingness to travel. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our properties, could result in fewer customers visiting our properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The Cripple Creek market, which is important to our business, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Because Cripple Creek is a mountain tourist town, its gaming market is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Typically, gaming revenues are greater in the summer tourist season and are lower from October through April. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the revenue attributable to our Cripple Creek operations fluctuated from a high of $5.0 million in the third quarter to a low of $3.8 million in the first quarter. If we are not able to offset seasonal declines in our Cripple Creek operations with additional revenue from other sources, our quarterly results may vary considerably from period to period, which could cause the price of our common stock or ADCs to be volatile. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, which may hamper our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions. For instance, in August 2002, Prague experienced a devastating flood throughout the city. Public access to the city in the vicinity of the Casino Millennium, which we operate, was severely limited for months following the disaster and negatively affected casino operations. High winds and blizzards limit access to our property in Cripple Creek from time to time, and hurricanes or severe storms may impact the operations of our cruise ship casino facilities. Weather also could adversely affect our casinos in Central City, Colorado and Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. In the event weather conditions limit access to our casino properties or otherwise adversely impact our ability to operate our casinos at full capacity, our revenue will suffer, which will negatively impact our operating results. - 21 - Index Construction delays and budget overruns could adversely affect our development of new casino projects and may harm our business. We currently are engaged in the development of new casino projects in Central City, Colorado and Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and have plans to commence construction on new facilities in Newcastle, South Africa and Croydon, United Kingdom. We also evaluate other opportunities to expand our portfolio of casino properties as they become available, and we may in the future engage in additional construction projects. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Unanticipated cost increases or other factors may result in the estimated budgets we use to plan our investment in new facilities not accurately forecasting the costs of those facilities, in which case our operating results will be adversely impacted by the new projects to a greater degree than we initially planned. In addition, if our initial budgets are not accurate, we may need to pursue additional financing to complete a proposed project, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. For example, prior to our execution of a fixed cost contract for the construction of the Edmonton project, our construction costs for the project increased from initial estimates by approximately $3.5 million ($4.0 million Canadian), or 22.0%. The adverse impact on our results of operations resulting from cost overruns on any construction projects we undertake may harm our stock or ADC prices. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can cause substantial delays in completing a project in addition to increasing the costs of the project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, and weather interference. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant delays with respect to development projects could result in a delay in our ability to recognize revenue from a new project, even though we would recognize a portion of the development costs of the project as construction was ongoing. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our facility in Caledon, South Africa represents a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated and expenses incurred by the Caledon facility are generally denominated in South African Rand. A decrease in the value of the Rand in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar would decrease the revenue and operating profit from our South African operations when translated into U.S. dollars, which would adversely affect our consolidated results and could cause the price of our common stock and ADCs to decrease. In addition, we expect to expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, we will face similar exchange rate risk with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries as a result of any increases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. We do not currently hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the Rand, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent on the services of Erwin Haitzmann, our Chairman and Co Chief Executive Officer, Peter Hoetzinger, our Vice Chairman and Co Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 22 - Index The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on our business. We intend to finance our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us, which limits our operating flexibility. Our revolving credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, primarily through our Colorado operating subsidiary, including maximum leverage ratios and total fixed cost coverages. In addition, our revolving credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. If we fail to comply with the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility, the resulting event of default could result in our lender accelerating the indebtedness under the credit facility. These restrictions limit our operating flexibility and may cause us not to engage in transactions that we would otherwise consider to be advantageous to our stockholders. Our casino management agreements may be terminated at any time. In addition to our casinos in Cripple Creek and Caledon, we currently operate casinos on seven cruise ships and the Casino Millennium in Prague. We operate the casinos on the cruise ships pursuant to casino concessionaire agreements with three different cruise ship charter companies and we operate the Casino Millennium in Prague according to a casino services agreement. The contracts with the cruise ship operators and the casino services agreement for the operation of the Casino Millennium all provide for cancellation with a limited notice period in the event of our default under the respective agreements. Accordingly, we could lose the revenue stream associated with these contracts on short notice, which may adversely affect our operating results. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While we have not experienced any shortages of energy that have hampered our operations, the substantial increases in the cost of electricity and natural gas in the U.S. may negatively affect our results of operations. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases. Dramatic increases in fuel prices may also adversely affect customer visits to our casino properties. - 23 - Index We may be required in the future to record impairment losses related to the goodwill we currently carry on our balance sheet. We had $8.7 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2005 and $8.8 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2004. Accounting rules require that we make certain estimates and assumptions related to our determinations as to the future recoverability of the goodwill we report on our balance sheet. If we were to determine that the value of the goodwill carried on our balance sheet is impaired, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the value of our goodwill, which would adversely affect our results during the period in which we recorded the impairment charge. Certain anti-takeover measures we have adopted may limit our ability to consummate transactions that some of our security holders might otherwise support. We have a fair price business combination provision in our certificate of incorporation, which requires approval of certain business combinations and other transactions by holders of 80% of our outstanding shares of voting stock. We also have adopted a stockholder rights plan that allows our stockholders to purchase significant amounts of our common stock at a discount in the event any third party acquires a significant ownership interest in us or attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions generally have the effect of requiring that any party seeking to acquire us negotiate with our Board of Directors in order to structure a business combination with us. This may have the effect of depressing the price of our common stock, and may similarly depress the price of the ADCs, due to the possibility that certain transactions that our stockholders might favor could be precluded by these provisions. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation may require one or more holders to sell their stock or ADCs to us, even if the holder would not otherwise want to divest itself of our common stock or ADCs. Gaming regulations in various jurisdictions in which we operate impose certain restrictions on the equity ownership of licensed casino operators. In order to facilitate compliance with these regulations and to preserve our ability to be awarded additional gaming licenses in the future, our certificate of incorporation includes a provision which allows our Board of Directors to redeem shares of stock (including shares of common stock underlying the ADCs) held by one or more stockholders to the extent necessary to keep us in compliance with existing gaming regulations or to allow us to secure additional gaming licenses. As a result, a stockholder or holder of ADCs could be required to sell our stock at a time when such stockholder or holder of ADCs may consider our securities to be undervalued or may otherwise not want to sell our securities. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities may assert that we owe additional taxes. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is in the process of conducting an examination of our U.S. federal income tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2003. We do not expect a settlement that might result from the audit to be materially in excess of amounts accrued. We may also be examined by tax authorities in other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our Company’s Return of Income: Company and Close Corporation filed for South Africa for 2000 and 2001 is being audited by the South African Revenue Service. We do not expect any settlement that might result from this audit to be materially in excess of amounts accrued. In the event the IRS or other taxing authorities determine that we have not paid the proper amount of income taxes, we may be required to pay additional taxes as well as interest, penalties, and fees. Payment of any such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations during the period in which we make the payments. - 24 - Index Service of process and enforceability of certain foreign judgments is limited. We are incorporated in the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets are located in the U.S. and South Africa. In addition, some of our directors and officers named in this prospectus are residents of the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located in the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for European investors who hold ADCs to effect service of process within Austria upon the Company or such persons or to enforce judgments obtained against them in such courts based on civil liability provisions of the European securities laws. Outside investors own preference shares in our Caledon, South Africa operation, which may reduce our return on investment from that property. Century Resorts Limited (“CRL”) owns 100% of the common equity of CCAL, our South African subsidiary that owns and operates the Caledon Hotel, Spa and Casino. Unrelated third parties own preference shares that entitle them to a priority on distributions in certain circumstances. The preference shares are not cumulative, nor are they redeemable. The preference shares entitle the holders of such shares to dividends of 20% of the after-tax profits of each financial year directly attributable to the Caledon casino business in that year, subject to, as determined by the directors of CCAL in their sole and absolute discretion, any working capital, capital expenditure requirements, loan obligations and liabilities attributable to the casino business. Although no dividends have been paid out so far, these dividend rights would reduce the return that we would otherwise receive from our investment in this property. Furthermore, should the casino business be sold or otherwise dissolved, the preferred shareholders would be entitled to 20% of any surplus directly attributable to the casino business, net of all liabilities attributable to the casino business. In January 2006, CCAL authorized a new class of preferred shares with a lower dividend rate and liquidation preference than the existing class of preferred shares, and CCAL is offering the new class of preferred shares for the shares currently outstanding. However, the existing shareholders may elect not to exchange their shares, and in that case would retain the preferred shares with the 20% dividend rate and liquidation preference. Risks Related to our Common Stock and the ADCs We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock or ADCs in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our shares of common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock, or the ADCs, in the foreseeable future. Our revolving credit facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock if payment of such dividends would cause us to violate financial covenants stated in the credit agreement. Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly. Our common stock trades in the U.S. on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is characterized by small issuers and a lack of significant trading volumes relative to other U.S. markets. These factors may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. For instance, the trading price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market varied from a low of $6.02 to a high of $10.91 during 2005. Our common stock also trades on the Vienna Stock Exchange in the form of ADCs. For a small company such as ours, having listings on two securities markets could decrease the trading volume on each market to levels that might increase the volatility of the trading price of our securities. Increased trading focus of our securities on one trading market could affect and significantly decrease the liquidity on the other market, which could make it difficult or impossible for an investor to sell our common stock or ADCs on the market with declining value. - 25 - Index Investors in our ADCs will not have, and our stockholders do not have, any preemptive rights relating to future issues of ADCs or shares of our common stock. Neither the Delaware General Corporation Law nor our certificate of incorporation provides for statutory preemptive rights for stockholders or ADC holders. Therefore, in the event we decide to issue further shares or other securities our existing stockholders and our ADC holders will not have statutory preemptive rights to purchase such shares or other securities. Because we are a foreign corporation to the Vienna Stock Exchange, the Austrian and other European takeover regimes do not apply to our company. Austrian takeover law does not apply to foreign corporations listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange. Should an investor decide to take over our Company, Delaware law (including laws relating to the enforceability of our stockholder rights plan) would apply, and neither our stockholders nor our ADC holders could rely on the Austrian or any other European takeover regime to apply to such a takeover. As a result, if you are a holder of ADCs you may be forced to sell the ADCs at a price that is less than you paid or that is less than you otherwise would accept. Investors whose currency is not denominated in the same currency as to which their common stock or ADCs are traded will incur exposure to fluctuating exchange rates. For investors whose currency is not denominated in the same currency as to which their common stock or ADCs are traded, fluctuations in the value of the common stock or ADCs currency against the investor’s currency will affect the market value of our shares and the ADCs, expressed in the investor’s currency. In addition, such fluctuations may also affect the conversion into the investor’s currency of cash dividends and other distributions paid on our shares and ADCs, if any, including proceeds received upon a sale or other disposition of our common stock and ADCs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. - 26 - Index Item 