Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, or any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results A downturn in general economic and geopolitical conditions has adversely affected our results of operations. We are and may continue to be adversely affected by the ongoing world economic downturn. Our business operations are subject to changes in international, national and local economic conditions. The current volatile global economic environment is having significant negative effects on our business. Our business is driven by discretionary income. Recessions and downturns in the general economies of the countries in which we operate have resulted in reduced consumer spending and fewer customers visiting our properties, and have adversely affected our results of operations. Our operations in Colorado are located approximately one hour away from the major markets they serve. For example, management believes that increased fuel prices for a majority of 2008 and the introduction of a smoking ban at all casinos in Colorado in 2008 contributed to a decline of revenue in these markets. Management believes that the ongoing world econ omic downturn continued to negatively impact our revenue during 2009. We face significant competition, and if we are not able to compete successfully, our results of operations will be harmed. We face intense competition from other casinos in jurisdictions in which we operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition, marketing resources and access to lower cost sources of financing than we do. We seek to compete through promotion of our membership clubs and other marketing efforts. For example, in Canada we emphasize the casino’s showroom, heated parking, players’ club program, and superior service. Some or all of these efforts may not be successful, which could hurt our competitive position. The markets in which we operate are generally not destination resort areas. The number of casinos in these markets may exceed demand, which could make it difficult for us to sustain profitability. -14- The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout much of the world. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming or liberalize their gaming rules in the near future. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our operating facilities, such gaming opportunities could attract players that might otherwise have visited our casinos. The resulting loss of revenue at our casinos may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gam ing licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. We are particularly vulnerable to competition in Colorado. If other gaming operations were permitted to open closer to Colorado Springs or Denver, our operations in Cripple Creek and Central City, respectively, could be substantially harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on us. New or expanded operations by other entities will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, in 2008, a large casino opened in Cripple Creek with approximately 625 slot machines, 14 table games and 67 offsite hotel rooms, further diluting the Cripple Creek market. In 2009, a competing casino in the Central City/Black Hawk market opened a 536-room hotel with pool and spa facilities in which they invested $235 million. Management believes that investments such as this and those by other casinos have increased the market share of our competitors. We believe that the opening of the ca sino in Cripple Creek and the hotel in Central City/Black Hawk had an adverse impact on our revenue in these respective markets. In 2010, a new casino is expected to be opening across from our casino in Central City. Management believes that this casino will have approximately 200 slot machines, 5 table games, a video poker sports bar and a banquet room. The opening of this casino could have a material adverse impact on our casino operation in the Central City/Black Hawk market. We may be unable to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations or potential acquisitions. While we have a significant amount of cash currently on hand as a result of our sale of CCA, we may not be able to obtain funding when we need it on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. In addition, the amount of capital that we are able to raise often depends on variables that are beyond our control, such as the share price of our stock and its trading volume. Funding may be impacted by the global economic, credit and stock market conditions. As a result, we may not be able to secure financing on terms attractive to us, in a timely manner or at all. If we are able to consummate a financing arrangement, the amount raised may not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs and may be highly dilutive to our current stockholders. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to scale back or eliminate certain operations. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us, which limits our operating flexibility. Our credit agreement related to our Edmonton, Alberta property limits the amount of cash that we are able to remove from Century Resorts Alberta. If we violate this or other covenants relating to this debt, the resulting event of default could result in the lender accelerating the repayment of all outstanding amounts due under the agreement. There can be no assurances that we or our subsidiary would be able to obtain a waiver to an event of default or modification of a covenant if necessary, or otherwise obtain alternative sources of funding to repay the obligation should a default occur. During 2008, we paid approximately $0.1 million to obtain a waiver of a financial covenant. -15- We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, which involve considerable expense and could harm our business. As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local, and international provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities may, for any reason set forth in applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our director s, officers and employees approved. We may not be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial fines against us or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could force us to terminate operations at an existing gaming facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, could result in us being fined or could prohibit us from successfully completing a project in which we invest. Closing facilities or an inability to expand may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our common stock and other securities, including our Austrian Depositary Certificates (“ADCs”) or common stock underlying the ADCs, file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability, and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with the right to repurchase shares of our common stoc k (including shares of common stock underlying our ADCs) from certain beneficial owners declared by gaming regulators to be unsuitable holders of our equity securities, and the price we pay to any such beneficial owner may be below the price such beneficial owner would otherwise accept for his or her shares of our common stock. Potential changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect the results of our operations. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or that may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of the gaming industry that results in increased competition and any restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of January 1, 2008, smoking was banned in all Colorado casinos. Management believes that this ban adversely affected our Colorado operations during 2008. Effective January 1, 2010, the gaming laws in Poland changed which increase the gaming tax rate from 45% to 50%, require all licensees to go through a renewal process once their current licenses have expired and require all slot arcades to cease opera tions at the end of their current license period. As a result of these changes, we determined that our investment in Poland suffered a decline in value that was other than temporary. We completed a discounted cash flow analysis based on management’s current expectations of CPL’s future cash flows. Management compared the fair value of its investment in CPL to its carrying value. We recorded an impairment of $9.0 million in the value of CPL to bring the value of our investment in CPL to its fair market value as of December 31, 2009. -16- We face extensive taxation from gaming and regulatory authorities. Potential changes to the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the results of our operations. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue to a jurisdiction through taxation and fees is one of the primary reasons jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. For instance, the Colorado constitution permits a gaming tax of up to 40% on adjusted gross gaming proceeds. The current gaming tax in Colorado is a graduated rate of 0.25% to 20% on adjusted gross gaming proceeds. Voter approval is required for any increase in gaming tax rates in Colorado. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state, provincial and l ocal governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. Effective January 1, 2010, Poland increased the gaming tax rate from 45% to 50%. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Increases in gaming tax rates would increase our gaming tax expenses and impair our profitability. We intend to develop and operate additional casino properties in the future, and if our development efforts are not successful our business may be harmed. We are required to obtain a gaming license for any additional facility we attempt to open (excluding casinos operating on cruise ships in international waters). We are currently licensed to operate gaming facilities in Colorado, Alberta, Canada and Poland. While our management believes that we are licensable in any jurisdiction that allows gaming operations, each licensing process is unique and requires a significant amount of funds and management time. The licensing process in any particular jurisdiction can take significant time and expense through licensing fees, background investigation costs, fees of counsel and other associated preparation costs. Moreover, should we proceed with a licensing approval process with industry partners, such industry partners would be subject to regulatory review as well. We seek to find industry partn ers that are licensable, but cannot assure that such partners will, in fact, be licensable. Additional risks before commencing operations include the time and expense incurred and unforeseen difficulties in obtaining suitable sites, liquor licenses, building permits, materials, competent and able contractors, supplies, employees, gaming devices and related matters. In addition, certain licenses include competitive situations where, even if we are licensable, other factors such as the economic impact of gaming, financial and operational capabilities of competitors must be analyzed by regulatory authorities. In addition, political factors may make the licensing process more difficult in one or more jurisdictions. If any of our gaming license applications are denied, we may have to write off costs related to our investment in such application processes, which could be significant. For instance, in 2005, we expended substantial funds to develop a riverboat gaming operation in Franklin County, Iowa. The Iowa Raci ng and Gaming Commission voted to allow four additional licenses, none of which were for projects in Franklin County. As a result, we terminated the project and had to write off costs of approximately $0.2 million. Even if we receive licenses to open and operate proposed new facilities, commencing operations at new casino projects would require substantial development capital. Development activities involve expenses and risks, including expenses involved in securing licenses, permits or authorizations other than those required from gaming regulators, and the risk of potential cost over-runs, construction delays, and market deterioration. In addition, our ability to attract and retain competent management and employees for any new location is critical to our success. One or more of these risks may result in any new property development not being successful. If we are not able to successfully commence operations at these properties, our results of operations will be harmed. -17- Difficulties in managing our worldwide operations may have an adverse impact on our business. In 2009, we derived our revenue from operations located on two continents and on cruise ships operating around the world. Our management is located in the United States and Europe. We are also listed on two stock exchanges, the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Vienna Stock Exchange. As a result of long distances, different time zones, culture, management and language differences, our worldwide operations pose risks to our business. These factors make it more challenging to manage and administer a globally-dispersed business, and increase the resources we must devote to operating under several different regulatory and legislative regimes (See “Governmental Regulation and Licensing” in Item 1, “Business”). We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our quarterly operating results. Weather patterns and holidays affect our operations. For example, our Colorado casinos, which are located in mountain tourist towns, typically experience greater gaming revenues in the summer tourist season than any other time during the year. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the net operating revenue attributable to our Colorado operations fluctuated from a low of $6.6 million in the second quarter to a high of $8.0 million in the third quarter. If we are not able to offset these seasonal declines with additional revenue from other sources, our quarterly results may suffer. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. We expended approximately $1.3 million for utilities for all of our operations in 2009. Substantial increases in the cost of electricity will negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties, which would negatively impact our revenues. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but this impact could be material to our results of operations. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, which may hamper our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions. High winds and blizzards, such as those experienced in Colorado from time to time, can limit access to our properties in North America. In the event weather conditions limit access to our casino properties or otherwise adversely impact our ability to operate our casinos at full capacity, our revenue will suffer, which will negatively impact our operating results. -18- Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Our casino in Canada and our equity interest in Casinos Poland represent a significant portion of our business, and the revenue generated and expenses incurred by these operations are generally denominated in Canadian Dollars and Polish Zloty, respectively. A decrease in the value of either of these currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar would decrease the revenue and operating profit from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars, which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, we may expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, we could face similar exchange rate risk with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries as a result of any increases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. We do not current ly hedge our exposure to fluctuations of these foreign currencies, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge any future foreign currency exposure. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent on the services of Erwin Haitzmann and Peter Hoetzinger, our Co Chief Executive Officers, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required in the future to record impairment losses related to the indefinite lived intangible assets and the equity investment we currently carry on our balance sheet. We have $4.7 million of goodwill and a $2.4 million equity investment as of December 31, 2009. Accounting rules require that we make certain estimates and assumptions related to our determinations as to the future recoverability of these assets. If we were to determine that the values of the goodwill or the equity investment carried on our balance sheet are impaired, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the value of these assets, which would adversely affect our results during the period in which we recorded the impairment charge. For instance, in 2008 we recorded goodwill impairments related to our investments in Cripple Creek, Colorado and Central City, Colorado totaling $9.3 million. In 2009, we wrote down our equity investment in Poland by $9.0 million. We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we open or acquire in the future, which could adversely impact our operations. We continually evaluate opportunities to open new properties, some of which are potentially significant in relation to our size. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating expanded or combined operations resulting from our expansion activities. The integration of any new properties we open or acquire in the future will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of our existing operations, which may interrupt the activities of those operations and could result in deteriorating performance from those operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial staff, which would increase our expenses. -19- Service of process and enforceability of certain foreign judgments is limited. We are incorporated in the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets are located in North America. In addition, some of our directors and officers are residents of the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located in the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for European investors who hold ADCs to effect service of process within Austria upon us or our affiliates in the U.S. or to enforce judgments obtained against us or our affiliates in Austrian or U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the European securities laws. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2009, we have performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in the future, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our inter nal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock may decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require significant additional financial and management resources. Risks Related to our Common Stock and the ADCs We are subject to the listing requirements under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and the Vienna Prime Market Rules. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable requirements, our stock or ADCs could be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) or the Vienna Stock Exchange (“VSE”), as applicable, which would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock or ADC’s, as applicable, and harm our business. Under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, our common stock is required to maintain a minimum $1 bid price in order to qualify for continued listing on the NASDAQ. Failure to maintain the minimum bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days, followed by failure to regain compliance within specified time periods, would potentially result in the delisting of our common stock. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our stock traded at or below $1.00 per share. We did not fall below the $1.00 per share threshold in 2009. Under the Vienna Prime Market Rules, we are required to maintain a minimum market capitalization for shares held by the public of €16.0 million. Although our market capitalization has not been below this threshold, if we fail to maintain this minimum market capitalization, our ADCs could be delisted from the VSE. The delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ or of our ADC’s by the VSE could have a material adverse impact on the market value and liquidity of our capital stock. No assurance can be given that our common stock or ADCs will remain in compliance with their respective NASDAQ and VSE listing requirements. -20- Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly. Our common stock trades in the U.S. on the NASDAQ Stock Market, which consists of relatively small issuers and a lack of significant trading volumes relative to other U.S. markets. These factors may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. For instance, the trading price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market over the last two years has varied from a high of $6.45 to a low of $0.60. Our common stock also trades on the Vienna Stock Exchange in the form of ADCs. For a small company such as ours, having listings on two securities markets could decrease the trading volume on each market to levels that might increase the volatility of the trading price of our securities. Increased trading focus of our securities on one trading market could affect and significantly decrease the liquidity of our securities on the other m arket, which could make it difficult or impossible for an investor to sell our common stock or ADCs on the market with declining value. Certain anti-takeover measures we have adopted may limit our ability to consummate transactions that some of our security holders might otherwise support. We have a fair price business combination provision in our certificate of incorporation, which requires approval of certain business combinations and other transactions by holders of 80% of our outstanding shares of voting stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions generally have the effect of requiring that any party seeking to acquire us negotiate with our board of directors in order to structure a business combination with us. This may have the effect of depressing the price of our common stock, and may similarly depress the price of the ADCs, due to the possibility that certain transactions that our stockholders might favor could be precluded by these provisions. Because we are a foreign corporation listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange, the Austrian and other European takeover regimes do not apply to us. Austrian takeover law does not apply to foreign corporations listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange. If an investor proposes to take us over, Delaware law would apply, and neither our stockholders nor our ADC holders could rely on the Austrian or any other European takeover regime to influence such a takeover. As a result, a holder of our ADCs may be forced to sell the ADCs at a price that is less than the price paid by such holder or that is less than what such holder otherwise would accept. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. -21- 