ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement about Forward Looking Statements Our discussion and analysis in this Report, in other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in public statements of our officers and corporate spokespersons contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current events. They include words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” and other words of similar meaning in connection with discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include statements relating to future actions, acquisition and growth strategy, synergies and cost savings anticipated from acquisitions and mergers, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. Forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Mobile Mini could also be adversely affected by other factors besides those listed here. A slowdown in the non-residential construction sector of the economy could reduce demand from some of our customers, which could result in lower demand for our products. At the end of 2006 and 2007, customers in the construction industry, primarily in non-residential construction, accounted for approximately 40% and 43%, respectively, of our leased units. This industry tends to be cyclical. In 2002 and 2003 this industry sector suffered a sustained economic slowdown which resulted in much slower growth 17 Table of Contents in demand for leases and sales of our products. If another sustained economic slowdown in the non-residential construction sector were to occur, it is likely that we would again experience less demand for leases and sales of our products. Also, because most of our cost of leasing is either fixed or semi variable, this would cause our margins to contract and the adverse affect on operating results would be more pronounced. Our internal growth rate slowed to 7.5% in 2002 and 7.4% in 2003 due to a slowdown in the economy, particularly in this sector. During these years, our profitability declined. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger with Mobile Storage Group, and the integration process could adversely impact our ongoing operations. The Company and the Mobile Storage Group entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, an expanded customer base and ongoing cost savings and operating efficiencies. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize such anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of our company and Mobile Storage Group. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amounts of expected revenues of the combined company. Mobile Mini and Mobile Storage Group have operated independently and until the completion of the merger will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of the companies during the transition period. The integration may take longer than anticipated and may have unanticipated adverse results relating to Mobile Mini’s or Mobile Storage Group’s existing business. We will take on substantial additional indebtedness to finance the merger and this additional indebtedness could significantly impact Mobile Mini’s ability to operate its business. In connection with the merger, Mobile Mini expects to enter into a $1.0 billion asset asset-based revolving loan. The security for the credit facility will include a lien on substantially all of the combined company’s present and future assets. Mobile Mini plans to use a portion of the proceeds from the credit facility to pay a portion of the approximately $535.0 million indebtedness of Mobile Storage Group, $12.5 million cash component of the merger consideration and the $25.0 million estimated amount of transaction costs related to the merger. The indebtedness that we will assume includes $200 million of Mobile Storage Group senior notes. Such increased indebtedness could limit the Mobile Mini’s financial and operating flexibility, including by requiring Mobile Mini to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to the interest on its debt, making it more difficult to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, limiting its ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities and making it more vulnerable to economic downturns. In addition, the significant level of indebtedness could limit Mobile Mini’s flexibility to react to changes in the industry and economic conditions and divert financial resources away from the expansion and improvement of its business. Our planned growth could strain our management resources, which could disrupt our development of our new branch locations. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage our planned growth, which in 2006 included our commencement of operations in the United Kingdom and The Netherlands. On February 22, 2008, we entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Mobile Storage Group will merge into Mobile Mini in a transaction valued at approximately $701.5 million. Our growth could strain our management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve our operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage our employees. If we do not manage our growth effectively, some of our new branches and acquisitions may lose money or fail, and we may have to close unprofitable locations. Closing a branch in such circumstances would likely result in additional expenses that would cause our operating results to suffer. 18 Table of Contents Our expansion may divert our resources from other aspects of our business and require that we incur additional debt, and may subject us to additional and different regulations. Failure to manage these economic, financial, business and regulatory risks may adversely impact our growth and results of operations. We regularly review and evaluate expansion opportunities. Our expansion into markets in the United Kingdom and The Netherlands, which commenced in 2006, requires us to make substantial investments, which could divert resources from other aspects of our business. We may also be required to raise additional debt or equity capital to fund our expansion. In addition, we may incur difficulties in staffing and managing our new operations. In connection with expansion outside of the U.S., we face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, changes in political and economic conditions, and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in Europe will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth, in Europe and elsewhere, and lead to increased administrative costs. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. The indenture governing our 6.875% Senior Notes and, to a lesser extent, our revolving credit facility agreement contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not maintain certain financial covenants or we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) and redeem or repurchase our capital stock. Our revolving credit facility requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing the Senior Notes, and the revolving credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the revolving credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. The amount we can borrow under our revolving credit facility depends in part on the value of the portable storage units in our lease fleet. If the value of our lease fleet declines, we cannot borrow as much. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our lease fleet. We would breach some of these covenants if the value of our lease fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet. We anticipate that our new revolving credit facility, which we will enter into in connection with our merger with Mobile Storage Group, will include covenants similar to those in our existing credit agreement. We operate with a high amount of debt and we may incur significant additional indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive, and we operate with a high amount of debt relative to our size. In May 2007, we issued $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Notes. These notes were issued at 99.548% of par value. In May 2007, we entered into the First Amendment of the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, under which we may borrow up to $425.0 million on a revolving loan basis, which 19 Table of Contents means that amounts repaid may be reborrowed. As of February 22, 2008, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $234.9 million and letters of credit of approximately $3.3 million under the credit facility, leaving approximately $186.8 million available for further borrowing and immediately available. In connection with our merger with Mobile Storage Group, we anticipate that we will assume approximately $535.0 million of Mobile Storage Group’s indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Senior Notes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional debt or equity to sustain our growth, but we do not have commitments for such funds beyond financing commitments related to our merger with Mobile Storage Group. We finance our growth through a combination of borrowings, cash flow from operations, and equity financing. Our ability to continue growing at the pace we have historically grown will depend in part on our ability to obtain either additional debt or equity financing. The terms on which debt and equity financing is available to us varies from time to time and is influenced by our performance and by external factors, such as the economy generally and developments in the market, that are beyond our control. Also, additional debt financing or the sale of additional equity securities may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail our growth by delaying new branch openings, or, under certain circumstances, lease fleet expansion. Fluctuations between the British pound and U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 8.0% of our total revenues in 2007 from our operations in the U.K. We expect that percentage will increase materially on an annualized basis following the closing of our merger with Mobile Storage Group. The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiaries are measured using the British pound as the functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from our U.K. operations and in translating our financial results back into U.S. dollars. We believe the impact of currency fluctuations on us from an operations perspective is mitigated by the fact that the majority of our expenses, capital expenditures and revenues in the U.K. are in British pounds. We do, however, have significant currency exposure as a result of translating our financial results from British pounds into U.S. dollars for purposes of financial reporting. Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiary are translated at the period end exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Our income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during each month. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound reduces the amount of income we recognize from our U.K. business. The British pound is currently at or near a multi-year high against the U.S. dollar, and we cannot predict the effects of further exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We are also exposed to additional currency transaction risk when our U.S. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in U.S. dollars and our U.K. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in British pounds. As exchange rates vary, our results of operations and 20 Table of Contents profitability may be harmed. We do not currently hedge our currency transaction or translation exposure, nor do we have any current plans to do so. The risks we face in foreign currency transactions and translation may continue to increase as we further develop and expand our U.K. operations. F Furthermore, to the extent we expand our business into other countries, we anticipate we will face similar market risks related to foreign currency translation caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those countries. The supply and cost of used ocean-going containers fluctuates, and this can affect our pricing and our ability to grow. We purchase, refurbish and modify used ocean-going containers in order to expand our lease fleet. If used ocean-going container prices increase substantially, we may not be able to manufacture enough new units to grow our fleet. These price increases also could increase our expenses and reduce our earnings, particularly if we are not able (due to competitive reasons or otherwise) to raise our rental rates to absorb this increase cost. Conversely, an oversupply of used ocean-going containers may cause container prices to fall. Our competitors may then lower the lease rates on their storage units. As a result, we may need to lower our lease rates to remain competitive. This would cause our revenues and our earnings to decline. The supply and cost of raw materials we use in manufacturing fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. We manufacture portable storage units to add to our lease fleet and for sale. In our manufacturing process, we purchase steel, vinyl, wood, glass and other raw materials from various suppliers. We cannot be sure that an adequate supply of these materials will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our operations and earnings. Rapid increases in raw material prices are often difficult to pass through to customers, particularly to leasing customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our profitability could decline. If raw material prices decline significantly, we may have to write down our raw materials inventory values. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition will decline. Some zoning laws in the United States and Canada and temporary planning permission regulations in Europe restrict the use of our portable storage and office units and therefore limit our ability to offer our products in all markets. Most of our customers use our storage units to store their goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws and temporary planning permission regulations in some of our markets do not allow some of our customers to keep portable storage and office units on their properties or do not permit portable storage units unless located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws or planning permission regulations in one or more of our markets no longer allow our units to be stored on customers’ sites, our business in that market will suffer. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. None of our employees are presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, from time to time various unions have attempted to organize some of our employees. We cannot predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. We depend on a few key management persons. We are substantially dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of Steven G. Bunger, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence Trachtenberg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Russ Lemley, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of any of these officers or our other key management persons could harm our business and prospects for growth. 21 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock is likely to be affected by: • changes in general conditions in the economy, geopolitical events or the financial markets; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • other developments affecting us, our industry, customers or competitors; • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the number of shares available for resale in the public markets under applicable securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 