ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A continued economic slowdown, particularly in the non-residential construction sector of the economy, could reduce demand from some of our customers, which could negatively impact our financial results. The recent recession has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has reduced demand for portable storage and mobile offices. These events have 13 Table of Contents also caused substantial volatility in the stock market and layoffs and other restrictions on spending by companies in almost every business sector. These events could continue to impact our business in a variety of ways, including: • reduction in consumer and business spending, which would result in a reduction in demand for our products; • a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us or our vendors to timely supply services, thus reducing our cash flow; and • an increase in counterparty risk. Additionally, at the end of 2009 and 2010, customers in the construction industry, primarily in non-residential construction, accounted for approximately 28% and 31%, respectively, of our leased units. If the current economic slowdown in the non-residential construction sector continues, we may continue to experience less demand for leases and sales of our products. Because most of the cost of our leasing business is either fixed or semi- variable, our margins will contract if revenue continues to fall without similar changes in expenses, which may be difficult to achieve, and which ultimately may result in having a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to control operating costs may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect and may impact customers. We have responded to the economic slowdown by employing a number of operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to pursue our strategy of reducing operating costs where available. Additionally, our hybrid sales strategy is designed to meet customer needs and drive revenue growth but differs from our historic sales structure. The extent to which these strategies will achieve the desired goals and efficiencies in 2011 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even if we carry out these measures in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the improvements or efficiencies we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate. There may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability or margins. Additionally, these strategies may have adverse consequences if our cost cutting and operational changes are deemed by customers to adversely impact product quality or service levels. Global capital and credit markets conditions could have an adverse effect on our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including via our credit facility. In 2009, due to the disruptions in the global credit markets, liquidity in the debt markets was materially impacted, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive or, in some cases, unavailable altogether. Renewed disruptions in the global credit markets or the failure of additional lending institutions could result in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing, including access to revolving lines of credit. We monitor the financial strength of our larger customers, derivative counterparties, lenders and insurance carriers on a periodic basis using publicly available information in order to evaluate our exposure to those who have or who we believe may likely experience significant threats to their ability to adequately service our needs. While we engage in borrowing and repayment activities under our revolving credit facility on an almost daily basis and have not had any disruption in our ability to access our revolving credit facility as needed, the current credit market conditions could eventually increase the likelihood that one or more of our lenders may be unable to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in the future we may need to raise additional funds to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations arising out of the agreements governing such debt. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. 14 Table of Contents We face intense competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The portable storage and mobile office industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national companies like ourselves, to smaller multi-regional companies and small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. See “Business — Competition.” Some of our principal competitors are less leveraged than we are and have lower fixed costs and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry. Additionally, some of our competitors currently offer products outside of our core container offerings but may have better brand recognition in their current end customer segments. If these competitors use their brand awareness to enter our product offerings, customers may choose these competitors’ products over ours and we could lose business. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things, quality and breadth of service, expertise, reliability, and the price, size, and attractiveness of our rental units. Our competitors are competing aggressively on the basis of pricing and may continue to drive prices further down. To the extent that we choose to match our competitors’ declining prices, it could harm our results of operations. To the extent that we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors’ pricing, it could also harm our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. We operate with a high amount of debt and we may incur significant additional indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive, and we operate with a high amount of debt relative to our size. At December 31, 2010, we had the following outstanding issuances of senior notes (i) $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior notes due 2015; (ii) $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.785% senior notes due 2020; and (iii) $22.3 million of outstanding notes under a previous issuance of $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 9.75% senior notes due 2014, which were originally issued by MSG and assumed by us in connection with our acquisition of MSG in June 2008. In January 2011, the remaining outstanding amount of the 9.75% senior notes due 2014 was redeemed and ceased to be outstanding. Additionally, we have entered into an ABL Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $850.0 million on a revolving loan basis, which means that amounts repaid may be reborrowed. All amounts outstanding under the ABL Credit Agreement are due on June 27, 2013. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $771.4 million of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. The indentures governing our 6.875% senior notes and 7.785% senior notes, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) and redeem or repurchase our capital stock. Our senior notes do not contain financial maintenance covenants and the financial maintenance covenants under our revolving credit facility are not applicable unless we fall below $100 million in borrowing availability. Our revolving credit facility requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indentures governing the senior notes, and the revolving credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the revolving credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, including the senior notes. The amount we can borrow under our revolving credit facility depends in part on the value of the portable storage units in our lease fleet. If the value of our lease fleet declines under appraisals our lenders receive, the amount we can borrow will similarly decline. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our lease fleet. We would be in breach of certain of these covenants if the value of our lease fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet. Disruptions in our information technology systems (including our phone system) could limit our ability to effectively operate, monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. We rely on a sophisticated phone and data network to communicate with customers and within our branch system. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. In addition, because our systems contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other potential material adverse effects on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents As Department of Transportation regulations increase, our operations could be negatively impacted and competition for qualified drivers could increase and result in increased labor costs. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT. Our company drivers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. The DOT is currently engaged in a rulemaking proceeding regarding drivers’ hours-of-service, and the result could negatively impact utilization of our equipment. For example, in December 2010, CSA 2010, a new enforcement and compliance model implementing driver standards in addition to our current standards, was launched. CSA 2010 may reduce the number of eligible drivers and/or negatively impact our fleet ranking. Under CSA 2010, drivers and fleets will be evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The methodology for determining a carrier’s DOT safety rating will be expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier’s drivers. As a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peer firms, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. A reduction in eligible drivers or a poor fleet ranking may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers, which could result in increased compensation costs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. See the table under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations” for disclosure regarding the amount of cash required to service our debt. We may not maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not enable us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, at an opportune time, or the proceeds that we realize may not be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock is likely to be affected by: • changes in general conditions in the economy, geopolitical events or the financial markets; • variations in our quarterly operating results; 17 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • other developments affecting us, our industry, customers or competitors; • changes in demand for our products or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; • the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses, particularly those operating in the construction sectors; • rental rate changes in response to competitive factors; • bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, thereby reducing demand for our used units; • seasonal rental patterns, with rental activity tending to be lowest in the first quarter of the year; • timing of acquisitions of companies and new location openings and related costs; • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; • possible unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies; • possible write-offs or exceptional charges due to changes in applicable accounting standards, goodwill impairment, or impairment of assets; • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the number of shares available for resale in the public markets under applicable securities laws. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. None of our employees are presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, from time to time various unions have attempted to organize some of our employees. We cannot predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. We believe that a unionized workforce would generally increase our operating costs, divert the attention of management from servicing customers and increase the risk of work stoppages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Fluctuations between the British pound and U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 15.6% of our total revenues in 2010 from our operations in the U.K. The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiaries are measured using the British pound as the functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from our U.K. operations and in translating our financial results back into U.S. dollars. We believe the impact on us of currency fluctuations from an operations perspective is mitigated by the fact that the majority of our expenses, capital expenditures and revenues in the U.K. are in British pounds. We do, however, have significant currency exposure as a result of translating our financial results from British pounds into U.S. dollars for purposes of financial reporting. Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiary are translated at the period end exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Our income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during each month. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound reduces the amount of income or loss we recognize on a consolidated basis from our U.K. business. We cannot predict the effects of further exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We are also exposed to additional currency transaction risk when our U.S. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in U.S. dollars and our U.K. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in British pounds. As exchange rates vary, our results of operations and profitability may be harmed. We do not currently hedge our currency transaction or translation exposure, nor do we have any current plans to do so. The risks we face in foreign currency transactions and translation may continue to increase as we further develop and expand our U.K. 18 Table of Contents operations. Furthermore, to the extent we expand our business into other countries, we anticipate we will face similar market risks related to foreign currency translation caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those countries. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. At December 31, 2010, we had $511.4 million of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, stock price, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. For more information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our financial statements contained in this Annual Report. We are subject to environmental regulations and could incur costs relating to environmental matters. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: • the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; • the exposure to hazardous materials; and • the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, oil/fuel and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities. These laws often impose liability even if the owner, operator or lessor did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. The costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The supply and cost of used ISO containers fluctuates, which can affect our pricing and our ability to grow. As needed, we purchase, remanufacture and modify used ISO containers in order to expand our lease fleet. If used ISO container prices increase substantially, we may not be able to manufacture enough new units to grow our fleet. These price increases also could increase our expenses and reduce our earnings, particularly if we are not able (due to competitive reasons or otherwise) to raise our rental rates to absorb this increased cost. Conversely, an oversupply of used ISO containers may cause container prices to fall. In such event, competitors may then lower the lease rates on their storage units. As a result, we may need to lower our lease rates to remain competitive. These events would cause our revenues and our earnings to decline. 19 Table of Contents The supply and cost of raw materials we use in manufacturing fluctuates and could increase our operating costs. As needed, we manufacture portable storage units to add to our lease fleet and for sale. In our manufacturing process, we purchase steel, vinyl, wood, glass and other raw materials from various suppliers. We cannot be sure that an adequate supply of these materials will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our operations and earnings. Rapid increases in raw material prices are often difficult to pass through to customers, particularly to leasing customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our profitability could decline. If raw material prices decline significantly, we may have to write down our raw materials inventory values. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition will decline. Some zoning laws in the U.S. and Canada and temporary planning permission regulations in Europe restrict the use of our portable storage and office units and therefore limit our ability to offer our products in all markets. Most of our customers use our storage units to store their goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws and temporary planning permission regulations in some of our markets do not allow some of our customers to keep portable storage and office units on their properties or do not permit portable storage units unless located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws or planning permission regulations in one or more of our markets no longer allow our units to be stored on customers’ sites, our business in that market will suffer. If we fail to retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our business plan. One of the most important factors in our ability to profitably execute our business plan is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel, including our CEO and operational management. Our success in attracting and retaining qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package, including the implementation of adequate drivers of retention and rewards based on performance, and work environment. The departure of any key personnel and our inability to enforce non-competition agreements could have a negative impact on our business. We may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. If we buy a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that Company’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. These liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 20 Table of Contents If we do not manage new markets effectively, some of our new branches and acquisitions may lose money or fail, and we may have to close unprofitable locations. Closing a branch in such circumstances would likely result in additional expenses that would cause our operating results to suffer. In connection with expansion outside of the U.S., we face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, changes in political and economic conditions, and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in Europe depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth, in Europe and elsewhere, and lead to increased administrative costs. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by containers, offices or trailers rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees, (3) employment-related claims, (4) property damage, and (5) commercial claims. Our insurance policies have deductibles or self-insured retentions which would require us to expend amounts prior to taking advantage of coverage limits. Currently, we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may lead to lower revenues, as well as additional similar claims being filed. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon protection of our rights in trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights we own or license, including patents to our locking system. Our use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information and patents, or to defend against claims by third parties that our services or our use of intellectual property infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, copyright or other intellectual property infringement against us could prevent us from providing services, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a breakdown in our internal policies and procedures may lead to an unintentional disclosure of our proprietary, confidential or material non-public information, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 21 Table of Contents 