ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are important risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operation, business and financial condition to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We Depend Significantly on One Key Customer Our success is partly dependent on a single customer, Burger King (including its franchise purchasing cooperative Restaurant Services, Inc. (“RSI”) and various distribution companies), which accounted for approximately 51%, 52% and 48% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The termination or a significant reduction by Burger King of its business with us would adversely affect our business. We have domestic and international agreements with Burger King and RSI that guarantee that we will retain our role as the primary creative and manufacturing agency of record for both domestic and international Burger King premiums programs awarded through September 2008 (shipping through approximately September 2009). Our long-term agreements provide for bi-annual determinations of our guaranteed level of Burger King premiums business. The Burger King business is subject to significant year-to-year variability. For instance, the revenues generated by our business with Burger King decreased from $120,606 in 2004 to $117,257 in 2005 and $87,865 in 2006. The success of our business with Burger King is also partially dependent on the overall success of the Burger King system, whose sales could be negatively impacted by such factors as increased competition and product recalls. We Face Credit Risk We regularly extend credit to distribution companies in connection with our business with the Burger King system, which includes Supply Chain Services, LLC (“SCS”), which is a subsidiary of RSI. We began selling product to SCS in October 2003. Sales to SCS represented 65.1% of our sales to the Burger King System in 2006. Failure by SCS to honor their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Because of SCS’s established credit history with us, we do not believe that the concentration of receivables has a negative impact to our overall credit risk. We occasionally provide SCS with extended payment terms of up to 60 days. We also extend credit to several retailers in connection with various promotional programs as well as with our Consumer Products business. The mass market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Failure by one or more of these retailers to honor their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We Rely on the Continued Development of New Promotional Programs A large portion of our revenues come from a relatively limited number of promotional programs which are in effect for only a limited period of time and generally are not repeated. We must continually develop and sell new products and services for utilization in new promotional programs as part of our clients’ annual promotions calendars. There can be no assurance that we or our customers will be able to secure licenses for additional entertainment properties on which to base our promotional programs or that, if secured, such licenses will result in successful products. The Success of Our Products Depends on the Popularity of Licensed Materials Our promotional products are typically based on entertainment properties, such as characters from current motion pictures or television programs. The success of these products largely depends on the popularity of the entertainment properties on which they are based. Each motion picture and television program is an individual artistic work, and its commercial success is dependent on unpredictable consumer preferences. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if the entertainment properties upon which our products are based turn out to be less popular than we anticipate. Also, delays in the release of motion pictures or television programs could result in delays or cancellations of our promotions. Our Future Operating Results are Difficult to Predict We experience significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our revenues and net income (loss). The promotions business tends to include larger promotions in the summer and during the winter holiday season. Major movie and television release schedules also vary year-to-year, influencing the promotional schedules of our customers, as well as the particular promotions for which we are retained. The motion picture or television characters on which the promotions business is often based may only be popular for short periods of time or not at all. There may not be comparable popular characters or similar promotional campaigns in the future. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. 9 There Are Risks Associated with Acquisitions If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may make investments in complementary companies. The anticipated benefits of any acquisitions or investment may not be realized. If we buy a company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company’s personnel and operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in assimilating the acquired technology or products into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Business is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and to Potential Product Liability Claims Our business is subject to the provisions of, among other laws, the Federal Consumer Products Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and rules and regulations promulgated under these acts. These statutes are administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) which has the authority to remove from the market products that are found to be defective and present a substantial hazard or risk of serious injury or death. The CPSC can require a manufacturer to recall, repair, or replace these products under certain circumstances. We cannot assure that defects in our products will not be alleged or found. Products that we develop or sell may expose us to liability from claims by users of such products for damages including, but not limited to, bodily injury or property damage. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms in the future, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Products that we develop or sell may also expose us to liability for the costs related to product recalls. These costs can include legal expenses, advertising, collection and destruction of product, and free goods. Our product liability insurance coverage generally excludes such costs and damages resulting from product recall. Our Markets Are Highly Competitive The markets in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. Our competitors, and in many cases their parent companies, include companies which have far more extensive sales and development staffs and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies. We Rely on Foreign Manufacturers During 2006, approximately 93% of our products were manufactured in China. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs, quotas and other import or export controls, and changes in governmental policies. In addition, past outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) have been significantly concentrated in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of our contract manufacturers are located. The development and manufacture of our products could suffer if a significant number of our employees in Hong Kong or the employees of our contract manufacturers in China contract SARS or other communicable diseases, or are otherwise unable to fulfill their responsibilities. We do not have long-term contracts with our foreign manufacturers. Although we believe we could secure other third-party manufacturers to produce our products, our operations could be adversely affected if we lost our relationship with several of our current foreign manufacturers. Virtually all of the raw materials used in our products are available to our contract manufacturers from numerous suppliers. Our manufacturers do not have long-term supply contracts in place with their raw materials suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to variations in the prices we pay to our manufacturers for products, depending on what they pay for their raw materials. An increase in the cost of raw materials, such as petroleum, could result in price increases which we may not be able to fully pass on to our customers. Any such increase could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Face Foreign Currency Risk As part of our business, we enter into contracts for the purchase and sale of products with entities in foreign countries. While the vast majority of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, significant fluctuations in the local currencies of the entities with which we transact business may adversely affect these entities’ abilities to fulfill their obligations under their contracts. Logistix (U.K.) enters into contracts denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, GBP and Euros. Although we attempt to reduce its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of certain hedging techniques, changes in such exchange rates may result in changes in the value of our commitments and anticipated foreign currency cash flows. 10 We May Issue Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and may discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of Common Stock. The outstanding Series AA Stock is senior to any class of preferred stock which might be authorized by the Board of Directors in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Inapplicable. 