Item 1A. Risk Factors. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses over the next few years and we may never become profitable. We have never been profitable and we may never become profitable. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $207.4 million. We expect to incur additional losses as we continue our development of bremelanotide, PL-3994 and PL-6983. Unless and until we receive approval from the FDA or other equivalent regulatory authorities outside the United States, we cannot sell our products and will not have product revenues from them. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from reimbursements and other contract revenue under collaborative development agreements, existing cash balances and outside sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We expect that we will need to continue to raise funds in the future, and funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As of June 30, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 million and available-for-sale investments of $3.4 million, with current liabilities of $1.7 million excluding the current portion of deferred revenues of $2.7 million. In August 2009, we received net proceeds of $2.8 million resulting from a registered direct offering of units consisting of our common stock and warrants. In September 2009, we signed an amendment to our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca providing for $5 million in payments to us, with an initial payment of $2.5 million and the balance in the first quarter of calendar 2010. While we believe that the foregoing is adequate to fund operations through at least September 30, 2010, we will need additional funds to continue development of bremelanotide, PL-3994 and PL-6983, as well as our early stage research and discovery programs, and to fund operations after that date. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity financings, collaborative arrangements on our product candidates or other sources. However, additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we will need to further curtail operations significantly, including the delay, modification or cancelation of operations and plans, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, related to bremelanotide, PL-3994 and PL-6983. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to develop only certain of our product candidates or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates and/or potential markets. Based upon the recent price of our common stock on the NYSE Amex LLC (the NYSE Amex), even if we are able to raise additional capital it is likely that our existing stockholders will experience substantial dilution. In order to raise any meaningful amount of capital, as we intend, based upon our recent stock price we will almost certainly need to sell a significant amount of equity securities, either in the form of new shares of common stock or some other form of convertible security. Any significant sale of equity securities in any form at these prices will result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. The prospect of this dilution is likely to continue to have a negative effect on the market price and trading volume of our common stock until such time as an actual financing occurs. Our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex, making it difficult to trade shares of our common stock. On December 23, 2008, we received notice from the exchange now known as NYSE Amex notifying us that NYSE Amex had determined that we did not meet continued listing standards based on a review of our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008. In a letter to us, NYSE Amex stated that Palatin was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of NYSE Amex’s Company Guide (the Company Guide) because our stockholders’ equity was less than the required $4,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years and not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide because our stockholders’ equity was less than the required $6,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. The letter from NYSE Amex also stated that because our stock had been trading below $0.25 per share over the previous seven months, NYSE Amex deemed it appropriate for us to effect a reverse stock split in accordance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide. In order to maintain our NYSE Amex listing, we submitted a plan on January 23, 2009 advising NYSE Amex what we intend to do to bring us into compliance with the continued listing standards identified above by June 23, 2010. On February 27, 2009, NYSE Amex notified us that it had accepted our plan for regaining compliance, and that our listing on NYSE Amex was being continued pursuant to an extension. We may be able to continue our listing during the plan period through June 23, 2010, subject to periodic review by NYSE Amex to determine if we are making progress consistent with the plan. If we do not regain compliance with Sections 1003(a)(ii) and (iii) by 11 Table of Contents June 23, 2010, or if we do not make progress consistent with the plan during the plan period, NYSE Amex may initiate delisting procedures. If we are delisted from NYSE Amex then our common stock will trade, if at all, only on the over-the-counter market, such as the OTC Bulletin Board securities market, and then only if one or more registered broker-dealer market makers comply with quotation requirements. In addition, delisting of our common stock could further depress our stock price, substantially limit liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NYSE Amex could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We may implement a reverse stock split, which will reduce our trading volume and may result in a decrease in our market capitalization. As discussed in the risk factor above, NYSE Amex deems it appropriate for us to implement a reverse stock split because our stock had been trading below $0.25 per share over a seven month period. At the annual meeting of stockholders held on May 13, 2009, the stockholders authorized a reverse stock split which, if implemented, will combine between two and fifteen shares of outstanding common stock into one share of new common stock. The reverse stock split may be implemented at any time until May 13, 2010 upon a determination by our board of directors that the reverse stock split is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. If the board decides to proceed with the reverse split, the board will determine the exact reverse split ratio and effective date. If we do not complete a reverse stock split within a reasonable amount of time, NYSE Amex may consider suspending dealings in our common stock or initiate delisting procedures. In determining whether to proceed with the reverse split and setting the exact ratio of the split, the board will consider a number of factors, including additional funding requirements, the amount of our authorized but unissued common stock, market conditions, existing and expected trading prices of our common stock and NYSE Amex listing requirements. We anticipate that the reverse split, if the board determines to proceed with the reverse split, will be implemented in conjunction with an equity financing or other transaction. We believe it is likely that the per share market price of our common stock will increase after a reverse split. However, we cannot guarantee that our common stock price will increase, and even if it does, we cannot guarantee that the price increase: • will be proportionate to the reverse split ratio; • will last in the marketplace for any length of time; • will be sufficient to meet the listing requirements of NYSE Amex; or • will be sufficient to facilitate raising capital. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. Our operations to date have been primarily focused on acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, conducting preclinical and clinical studies and formulating and manufacturing on a small-scale basis our principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for stockholders to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our current product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to conduct preclinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products, or having third parties formulate and manufacture products; • post-approval pharmacovigilance; • conducting sales and marketing activities, either alone or with a partner; and • obtaining additional capital. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, to successfully commercialize any products for which we receive regulatory approval or to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to recover our investment in our development efforts. 12 Table of Contents Development and commercialization of our product candidates involves a lengthy, complex and costly process, and we may never successfully develop or commercialize any product. Our product candidates are at various stages of research and development, will require regulatory approval, and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Our product candidates will require significant further research, development and testing before we can seek regulatory approval to market and sell them. We must demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Preclinical studies in animals, using various doses and formulations, must be performed before we can begin human clinical trials. Even if we obtain favorable results in the preclinical studies, the results in humans may be different. Numerous small-scale human clinical trials may be necessary to obtain initial data on a product candidate’s safety and efficacy in humans before advancing to large-scale human clinical trials. We face the risk that the results of our trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. Adverse or inconclusive results could delay the progress of our development programs and may prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: • timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; • the rate of patient enrollment in clinical studies; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and • lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. You should evaluate us in light of these uncertainties, delays, difficulties and expenses commonly experienced by early stage biopharmaceutical companies, as well as unanticipated problems and additional costs relating to: • product approval or clearance; • regulatory compliance; • good manufacturing practices; • intellectual property rights; • product introduction; and • marketing and competition. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and may prevent us from obtaining the approvals we require. Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the advertising, labeling, storage, record-keeping, safety, efficacy, research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA in the United States and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. The steps ordinarily required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States include: • completion of non-clinical tests including preclinical laboratory and formulation studies and animal testing and toxicology; • submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; • performance of adequate and well-controlled Phase 1, 2 and 3 human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication; • submission to the FDA of an NDA; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA before any commercial marketing or sale. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements for new drugs typically takes a number of years and the actual time required for approval may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. Once the submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA generally has ten months to review the application and respond to the applicant. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. 13 Table of Contents Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved, but the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of the advisory committee. The FDA may deny or delay approval of applications that do not meet applicable regulatory criteria or if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety and efficacy of the drug. Therefore, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Upon approval, a product candidate may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved by the FDA. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as Phase 4 studies, to monitor the approved products in a larger number of patients than were required for product approval and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-market studies. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to seek injunctions, levy fines and civil penalties, criminal prosecution, withdraw approvals and seize products or request recalls. If regulatory approval of any of our product candidates is granted, it will be limited to certain disease states or conditions. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restriction through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. Outside the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process generally includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Community, or EC, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product to more than one EC member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficiency has been presented, a marketing authorization will be granted. If any approved product does not achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of any of our product candidates does not assure the product’s commercial success. Any approved product will compete with other products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. The degree of market acceptance of any such product will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about its safety and effectiveness; • cost-effectiveness relative to competing products and technologies; • availability of reimbursement for our products from third party payors such as health insurers, health maintenance organizations and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; and • advantages over alternative treatment methods. If any approved product does not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and their failure to timely perform their obligations could significantly harm our product development. We rely on outside scientific collaborators such as researchers at clinical research organizations and universities in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials and non-clinical tests. There is competition for these relationships, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. These outside collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates and develop them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to 14 Table of Contents comply with clinical trial protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. Production and supply of our product candidates depend on contract manufacturers over whom we have no control. We do not have the facilities to manufacture bremelanotide, PL-3994 or PL-6983 or our other potential products. Our contract manufacturers must perform these manufacturing activities in a manner that complies with FDA regulations. Our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. The manufacturers of approved products and their manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s GMPs regulations. Failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with GMPs or other FDA requirements may result in enforcement action by the FDA. Failure to conduct their activities in compliance with FDA regulations could delay our development programs or negatively impact our ability to receive FDA approval of our potential products or continue marketing if they are approved. Establishing relationships with new suppliers, who must be FDA-approved, is a time-consuming and costly process. We are subject to extensive regulation in connection with the laboratory practices and the hazardous materials we use. We are subject to various laws and regulations regarding laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research. In each of these areas, as noted above, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products and withdraw approvals, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future. Contamination or injury from hazardous materials used in the development of our products could result in a liability exceeding our financial resources. Our research and development involves the use of hazardous materials and chemicals, including radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we may be responsible for any resulting damages. Damages could be significant and could exceed our financial resources, including the limits of our insurance. We have no experience in marketing, distributing and selling products and will substantially rely on our marketing partners to provide these capabilities. We are developing bremelanotide and PL-6983 for sexual dysfunction and PL-3994 for the treatment of heart failure and related indications. We do not have marketing partners for any of these products. If any of these products are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we must either develop marketing, distribution and selling capacity and expertise, which will be costly and time consuming, or enter into agreements with other companies to provide these capabilities. We may not be able to enter into suitable agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. We do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our research collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca for our melanocortin-based therapeutic compounds for obesity, diabetes and related metabolic syndrome, we have no direct control over the development of compounds and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. If the results of development efforts are negative or inconclusive, AstraZeneca may decide to abandon further development of this program, including terminating the license agreement, by giving us notice of termination. Because much of the potential value of the license arrangement with AstraZeneca is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of this license will depend on the efforts of AstraZeneca. If AstraZeneca does not succeed in developing the licensed technology for any reason, or elects to discontinue the development of this program, we may be unable to realize the potential value of this arrangement. Competing products and technologies may make our proposed products noncompetitive. There are a number of other products being developed for FSD and ED. In addition to three oral FDA-approved PDE-5 inhibitor drugs for the treatment of ED, there are other approved products and devices, and other 15 Table of Contents products are being developed and are in clinical trials. There is competition to develop drugs for ED in patients non-responsive to PDE-5 inhibitor drugs, and to develop drugs for treatment of FSD. We are aware of one recombinant natriuretic peptide product for acutely decompensated congestive HF approved and marketed in the United States, and another recombinant natriuretic peptide product approved and marketed in Japan. Clinical trials on other natriuretic peptide products are being conducted in the United States. In addition, other products for treatment of HF are either currently being marketed or in development. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We are likely to encounter significant competition with respect to bremelanotide, PL-3994 and PL-6983. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do. Many of them also have significantly greater experience in research and development, marketing, distribution and sales than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing, marketing, distributing and selling products and underlying technologies more rapidly than we can. These competitive products or technologies may be more effective and useful or less costly than bremelanotide, PL-3994 or PL-6983. In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and may develop competing products or technologies on their own or through strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements. Our ability to achieve revenues from the sale of our products in development will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and other healthcare payers. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products in development will depend, in significant part, on the extent to which we or our marketing partners can obtain reimbursement for our products and also reimbursement at appropriate levels for the cost of our products and related treatment. Obtaining reimbursement from governmental payers, insurance companies, HMOs and other third-party payers of healthcare costs is a time consuming and expensive process. There is no guarantee that our products will ultimately be reimbursed. If we are able to obtain reimbursement, continuing efforts by governmental and third party payers to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect our future revenues and ability to achieve profitability. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic and therapeutic products and related services. Reimbursement from governmental payers is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings and other policy changes, all of which could materially decrease the range of products for which we are reimbursed or the rates of reimbursement by government payers. In addition, legislative proposals to reform the healthcare system may result in lower prices or the actual inability of prospective customers to purchase our products in development. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is available, it may not be available at price levels sufficient for us to realize a positive return on our investment. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; • if and when patents will be issued; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; and • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; 16 Table of Contents • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technologies and other proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. In addition to our reliance on patents, we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies and processes by relying on trade secret laws and agreements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary information. These agreements and arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technologies and processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies and processes or gain access to our trade secrets or technology, either of which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products or cease clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry liability insurance as to certain clinical trial risks. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not in the future be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are highly dependent on our management team, senior research professionals and third-party contractors and consultants, and the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on our management team, our employees and various contractors and consultants to provide critical services. Our ability to execute our preclinical and clinical programs depends on our continued retention and motivation of our management and scientific personnel, including executive officers and senior members of research, development and management who possess significant technical expertise and experience and oversee our development programs. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with contractors, consultants and scientific advisors. If we lose the services of existing personnel or fail to attract new personnel, our development programs could be adversely affected. Competition for personnel is intense. In addition, we may need to hire additional personnel or consultants to increase our research and development activities if we decide to expand research and development on new product opportunities. As of September 25, 2009, there were 19,046,381 shares of common stock underlying outstanding options, warrants and restricted stock units, and stockholders may experience dilution from the exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the vesting of restricted stock units. As of September 25, 2009, holders of our outstanding dilutive securities had the right to acquire the following amounts of underlying common stock: • 221,106 shares issuable on the conversion of immediately convertible Series A Convertible preferred stock, subject to adjustment, for no further consideration; • 7,117,529 shares issuable on the exercise of warrants, at exercise prices ranging from $0.33 to $4.00 per share; • 10,203,852 shares issuable on the exercise of stock options, at exercise prices ranging from $0.13 to $5.13 per share; and • 1,725,000 shares issuable under restricted stock units that vest no later than March 26, 2010, subject to the fulfillment of service conditions. If the holders convert, exercise or receive those securities, or similar dilutive securities we may issue in the future, stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their common stock. In addition, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares in the marketplace could depress our stock price. We have registered or agreed to register for resale substantially all of the underlying shares listed above. Holders of registered 17 Table of Contents underlying shares could resell the shares immediately upon issuance, resulting in significant downward pressure on our stock. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or unsatisfactory designs or results of these trials; • interim decisions by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, as to clinical trial designs, acceptable safety profiles and the benefit/risk ratio of products under development; • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or by us; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues, if any, in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer further. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. For the 12 month period ended August 31, 2009, the price of our stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of $1.05 per share to a low of $0.06 per share. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make potential acquisitions more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an "interested stockholder," unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If we exercise this right, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our equity incentive plans generally permit us to accelerate the vesting of options and other stock rights granted under these plans in the event of a change of control. If we accelerate the vesting of options or other stock rights, this action could make an acquisition more costly. 18 Table of Contents The application of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, for the development and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or future agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, our stockholders will not receive a return on their shares unless the value of their shares increases. We have broad discretion over the use of available cash and may not realize an adequate return. We have considerable discretion in the application of available cash and have not fixed the amounts that we will apply to various corporate purposes, including potential acquisitions. We may use cash for purposes that do not yield a significant return, if any, for our stockholders. 