Item 1A. Risk Factors. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses over the next few years and we may never become profitable. We have never been profitable and we may never become profitable. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $202.6 million. We expect to incur additional losses as we continue our development of PL-3994, bremelanotide, PL-6983 and NeutroSpec. Unless and until we receive approval from the FDA or other equivalent regulatory authorities outside the United States, we cannot sell our products and will not have product revenues from them. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from reimbursements and other contract revenue under collaborative development agreements, existing cash balances and outside sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We need to raise additional funds and expect that we will need to continue to raise funds in the future, and funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments and other current assets will not provide sufficient working capital to fund our operations for the next twelve months. In order to maintain our presently anticipated operations, we will need to raise additional funds. In 2007, we were able to raise $25.5 million in net proceeds through the sale of common stock. However, we have substantial ongoing operating expenses associated with the development of our product candidates. As of June 30, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.4 million and available-for-sale investments of $3.4 million, with current liabilities of $3.3 million net of the current portion of deferred revenues of $1.7 million. We anticipate receiving a significant milestone payment from AstraZeneca by the end of the first quarter of calendar year 2009, provided we achieve specified objectives by that time, but no assurance can be given that we will achieve the specified objectives by that time. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity financings, collaborative arrangements on our product candidates or other sources. However, additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we will need to further curtail operations significantly, including the delay, modification or cancelation of operations and plans, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, related to PL-3994, bremelanotide, PL-6983 and NeutroSpec. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to develop only certain of our product candidates or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates and/or potential markets. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2008 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report dated September 26, 2008 that included an explanatory paragraph referring to our recurring net losses and negative cash flows from operations and expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern without additional funds becoming available. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional equity financing or other capital, attain further operating efficiencies, reduce expenditures, and, 11 Table of Contents ultimately, to generate revenue. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We are continually evaluating opportunities to raise additional funds through public or private equity financings, as well as evaluating prospective business partners, and will continue to do so. However, if adequate funds are not available to us when we need it, and we are unable to enter into some form of strategic relationship that will give us access to additional cash resources, we will be required to even further curtail our operations which would, in turn, further raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Based upon the recent price of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange (the AMEX), even if we are able to raise additional capital it is likely that our existing stockholders will experience substantial dilution. If we raise additional capital as we intend, we will almost certainly need to sell a significant amount of equity securities, whether in the form of new shares of common stock or some other form of convertible security, in order to raise any meaningful amount of capital, based upon our recent stock price. Any significant sale of equity securities in any form at these prices will result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. The prospect of this dilution is likely to continue to have a negative effect on the market price and trading volume of our common stock until such time as an actual financing occurs. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. Our operations to date have been primarily focused on acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, conducting preclinical and clinical studies and formulating and manufacturing on a small-scale basis our principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our product candidates other than NeutroSpec. The successful commercialization of our other product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to conduct preclinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products, or having third parties formulate and manufacture products; • conducting sales and marketing activities, either alone or with a partner; and • obtaining additional capital. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, to successfully commercialize any products for which we receive regulatory approval or to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to recover our investment in our development efforts. Development and commercialization of our product candidates involves a lengthy, complex and costly process and we may never successfully develop or commercialize any product. Our product candidates are at various stages of research and development, will require regulatory approval, and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Our product candidates will require significant further research, development and testing before we can seek regulatory approval to market and sell them. We must demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Preclinical studies in animals, potentially using various doses and formulations, must be performed before we can begin human clinical trials. Even if we obtain favorable results in the preclinical studies, the results in humans may be different. Numerous small-scale human clinical trials may be necessary to obtain initial data on a product candidate’s safety and efficacy in humans before advancing to large-scale human clinical trials. We face the risk that the results of our trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. Adverse or inconclusive results could delay the progress of our development programs and may prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: • timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; • the rate of patient enrollment in clinical studies; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and 12 Table of Contents • lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. You should evaluate us in light of these uncertainties, delays, difficulties and expenses commonly experienced by early stage biopharmaceutical companies, as well as unanticipated problems and additional costs relating to: • product approval or clearance; • regulatory compliance; • good manufacturing practices; • intellectual property rights; • product introduction; and • marketing and competition. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and may prevent us from obtaining the approvals we require. Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the advertising, labeling, storage, record-keeping, safety, efficacy, research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA in the United States and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. The steps ordinarily required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States include: • completion of preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical studies and formulation studies; • submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; • performance of adequate and well-controlled Phase 1, 2 and 3 human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication; • submission to the FDA of an NDA, or, for products categorized as biologicals such as NeutroSpec, a BLA; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA before any commercial marketing or sale. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA. The NDA or BLA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. Once the submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA generally has ten months to review the application and respond to the applicant. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA may refer the NDA or BLA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved, but the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of the advisory committee. The FDA may deny or delay approval of applications that do not meet applicable regulatory criteria or if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety and efficacy of the drug. Upon approval, a product candidate may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved by the FDA. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with pre- and post-market regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as Phase 4 studies, to monitor the effect of approved products, and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-market studies. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products, and withdraw approvals. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements for new drugs typically takes several years and the actual time required for approval may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. Government regulation may prevent marketing of potential products or delay marketing for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. Therefore, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. 13 Table of Contents If regulatory approval of any of our product candidates is granted, it will be limited to certain disease states or conditions. The manufacturers of approved products and their manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s cGMPs regulations. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, voluntary recall of a product, injunctive action or possible civil penalties. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restriction through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. Because we intend to contract with third parties for manufacturing of these products, our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. Failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMPs or other FDA requirements may result in legal or regulatory action by the FDA. Outside the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process generally includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Community, or EC, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product to more than one EC member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficiency has been presented, a marketing authorization will be granted. In order to reintroduce NeutroSpec to the market, we will be required to conduct extensive clinical trials of NeutroSpec, and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval. We do not anticipate seeking approval to recommence marketing NeutroSpec for the previously approved indication, imaging and diagnosing equivocal appendicitis. The reported serious adverse events were associated with off-label use (use for an indication other than diagnosis of equivocal appendicitis), and substantial sales of NeutroSpec were for off-label uses. We have conducted additional laboratory studies to explore the relationship between NeutroSpec and the reported serious adverse events. However, results of those studies are not conclusive, and we may not be able to develop a sufficient understanding of the relationship to warrant application to the FDA to conduct additional studies. We also may not be able to develop methods, formulations or protocols that permit NeutroSpec to be used safely. We also do not know whether the FDA will concur in our risk/benefit assessment of NeutroSpec, or permit NeutroSpec to be marketed again. Even if we seek to reintroduce NeutroSpec to the market, we anticipate seeking approval to market NeutroSpec for indications, such as osteomyelitis (infection deep inside a bone), which will require that Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials be successfully completed, as to which there can be no assurance, prior to seeking approval of the FDA. If any approved product does not achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of any of our product candidates does not assure the product’s commercial success. Any approved product will compete with other products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. The degree of market acceptance of any such product will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about its safety and effectiveness; • cost-effectiveness relative to competing products and technologies; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payors; and • advantages over alternative treatment methods. Because we voluntarily withdrew NeutroSpec from the market, it may be more difficult to gain market acceptance with NeutroSpec, assuming that the FDA permits NeutroSpec to be reintroduced to the market. If any approved product does not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and their failure to timely perform their obligations could significantly harm our product development. We rely on outside scientific collaborators such as researchers at clinical research organizations and universities in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials. The competition for these relationships is intense, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. These outside collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates and develop them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and could delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay or eliminate our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. Production and supply of our product candidates depend on contract manufacturers over whom we have no control. We do not have the facilities to manufacture PL-3994, bremelanotide, PL-6983 or NeutroSpec. Our contract manufacturers must perform these manufacturing activities in a manner that complies with FDA regulations. Failure to conduct their activities in compliance with FDA regulations could delay our development programs or negatively impact our ability to receive FDA approval of our potential products. Establishing relationships with new suppliers, who must be FDA-approved, is a time-consuming and costly process. We are subject to extensive regulation in connection with the laboratory practices and the hazardous materials we use. We are subject to various laws and regulations regarding laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research. In each of these areas, as noted above, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products and withdraw approvals, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future. Contamination or injury from hazardous materials used in the development of our products could result in a liability exceeding our financial resources. Our research and development involves the use of hazardous materials and chemicals, including radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we may be responsible for any resulting damages. Damages could be significant and could exceed our financial resources, including the limits of our insurance. We have no experience in marketing, distributing and selling products and will substantially rely on our marketing partners to provide these capabilities. We are developing PL-3994, an NPRA agonist, for the treatment of heart failure and difficult-to-control hypertension, bremelanotide for prevention of organ damage secondary to cardiac surgery and related indications, and PL-6983 for FSD. We do not have marketing partners for any of these products. If any of these products are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we must either develop marketing, distribution and selling capacity and expertise, which will be costly and time consuming, or enter into agreements with other companies to provide these capabilities. We may not be able to enter into suitable agreements on acceptable terms if at all. If we recommence sales of NeutroSpec, we will depend on Mallinckrodt, our strategic collaboration partner, to market, sell and distribute the product. If Mallinckrodt fails to adequately market NeutroSpec or devote enough resources to NeutroSpec, our potential revenues will be adversely affected. If Mallinckrodt determines to not 15 Table of Contents proceed with NeutroSpec, we may have difficulty establishing new marketing relationships, and in any event, we will have limited control over these activities. We do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our January 2007 license agreement with AstraZeneca, as amended in June 2008, for our melanocortin-based therapeutic compounds for obesity, diabetes and related metabolic syndrome, we have no direct control over the development of compounds and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. If the results of development efforts are negative or inconclusive, AstraZeneca may decide to abandon further development of this program, including terminating the license agreement by giving us notice of termination. Because much of the potential value of the license arrangement with AstraZeneca is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of this license will depend on the efforts of AstraZeneca. If AstraZeneca does not succeed in developing the licensed technology for any reason, or elects to discontinue the development of this program, we may be unable to realize the potential value of this arrangement. Competing products and technologies may make our proposed products noncompetitive. We are aware of one recombinant natriuretic peptide product for acutely decompensated congestive HF approved and marketed in the United States, and another recombinant natriuretic peptide product approved and marketed in Japan. Clinical trials on another synthetic natriuretic product are being conducted in the United States. In addition, other products for treatment of HF are either currently being marketed or in development. There are a large number of approved oral and intravenous drugs for control of hypertension, some of which may be used for difficult-to-control hypertension. While PL-3994 is believed to decrease hypertension by a different mechanism than existing approved drugs, we may be required to demonstrate efficacy and safety equivalent or superior to these other products in order to achieve approval and market acceptance. We are not aware of any FDA-approved product for organ protection that works by the same mechanism as bremelanotide. However, we are aware of one other product in Phase 2 clinical trials that we believe works by the same or a related mechanism, and there are other products and technologies in development for organ protection, including renal protection. In order to achieve approval and market acceptance, bremelanotide may be required to demonstrate efficacy and safety equivalent or superior to these other products and technologies. There are a number of other products being developed for FSD and ED. We are aware of three oral FDA-approved PDE-5 inhibitor drugs for the treatment of ED. These products are also approved in Europe, Japan and most of the world’s pharmaceutical markets. In order to achieve approval and market acceptance, PL-6983 may be required to demonstrate efficacy and safety equivalent or superior to these other products. We are aware of one company developing a technetium imaging product and another company marketing an antibody-based technetium product in some European countries, both of which may compete with NeutroSpec for certain indications. In addition, other technologies may also be used to diagnose osteomyelitis and other infection-related diseases, including CT and ultrasound technologies. The biopharmaceutical and diagnostic industries are highly competitive. We are likely to encounter significant competition with respect to PL-3994, bremelanotide, PL-6983 and NeutroSpec. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do. Many of them also have significantly greater experience in research and development, marketing, distribution and sales than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing, marketing, distributing and selling products and underlying technologies more rapidly than we can. These competitive products or technologies may be more effective and useful or less costly than PL-3994, bremelanotide, PL-6983 or NeutroSpec. In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and may develop competing products or technologies on their own or through strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements. Our ability to achieve significant revenues from the sale of our future products will depend, in part, on the ability of healthcare providers to obtain adequate reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and other healthcare payers. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect our future revenues and ability to achieve profitability. Our ability to successfully commercialize our future products will depend, in significant part, on the extent to which healthcare providers can obtain appropriate reimbursement levels 16 Table of Contents for the cost of our products and related treatment. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic and therapeutic products and related services. Also, the trend towards managed healthcare in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. In addition, legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices or the actual inability of prospective customers to purchase our future products. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is available, it may not be available at price levels sufficient for us to realize a positive return on our investment. We could lose our rights to NeutroSpec, which could adversely affect our potential revenues. Our rights to a key antibody used in NeutroSpec are dependent upon an exclusive license agreement with The Wistar Institute of Biology and Anatomy. This agreement contains specific performance criteria and requires us to pay royalties and make other payments. Failure to meet these requirements, or any other event of default under the license agreement, could lead to termination of the license agreement. If the license agreement is terminated, we will be unable to make or market NeutroSpec, in which case we may lose the value of our substantial investment in developing the product, as well as any future revenues from selling NeutroSpec. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; • if and when patents will be issued; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; and • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technologies and other proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. In addition to our reliance on patents, we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies and processes by relying on trade secret laws and agreements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary information. These agreements and arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technologies and processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies and processes or gain access to our trade secrets or technology, either of which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. 17 Table of Contents We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products or cease clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry product/medical professional liability insurance, which includes liability insurance for our clinical trials. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are highly dependent on our management team, senior research professionals and third-party contractors and consultants, and the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our business. We have decreased staffing levels to 46 employees, the minimum that we believe is necessary to execute our currently planned preclinical and clinical programs. We will rely on various contractors and consultants to provide critical services, some of which were previously provided by our employees. Our ability to execute our preclinical and clinical programs depends on our continued retention and motivation of remaining management and scientific personnel, including executive officers and senior members of research, development and management who possess significant technical expertise and experience and oversee our development programs. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with contractors, consultants and scientific advisors. If we lose the services of existing personnel or fail to attract required new personnel, our development programs could be adversely affected. Competition for personnel is intense. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel or consultants to increase our research and development activities if we decide to expand research and development on new product opportunities. Stockholders may experience dilution from the exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the vesting of restricted stock units. As of June 30, 2008, options and warrants to purchase 11,628,688 shares of common stock were outstanding at various exercise prices ranging from $0.21 per share to $5.13 per share, 1,138,824 shares were issuable under restricted stock units granted to our employees that will vest if the employee remains employed with us through September 30, 2008 or earlier under certain conditions, and 975,000 shares were issuable under restricted stock units to our executive officers that will vest if the named officers remain employed with us through March 26, 2010 or earlier under certain conditions. The issuance or potential issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants and vesting of restricted stock units may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or unsatisfactory designs or results of these trials; • interim decisions by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, as to clinical trial designs, acceptable safety profiles, and the benefit/risk ratio of products under development; • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or by us; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; 18 Table of Contents • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues, if any, in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer further. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. For the year ended June 30, 2008, the price of our stock has been extremely volatile, ranging from a high of $2.09 per share to a low of $0.17 per share. The volatility in our stock price related primarily to our announcement that we delayed initiation of Phase 3 clinical trials of bremelanotide for ED, following responses in late August 2007 from the FDA raising serious concerns about the acceptable benefit/risk ratio to support progression into Phase 3 as a first-line therapy in the general population. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The AMEX and other national stock exchanges maintain standards for initial and continued listing of shares for trading. These standards include requirements for minimum per share stock prices, aggregate market values of shares outstanding, minimum stockholders’ equity and related factors. We are listed on the AMEX, and continue to meet standards for continued listing. If we are unable to meet these requirements and are delisted, the ability of investors to buy or sell our shares will be restricted, in which case the market value of our common stock and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms may be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make potential acquisitions more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an “interested stockholder,” unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If we exercise this power, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our equity incentive plans generally permit us to accelerate the vesting of options granted under these plans in the event of a change of control. If we accelerate the vesting of options, this action could make an acquisition more costly. The application of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, for the development and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or future agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, our stockholders will not receive a return on their shares unless the value of their shares increases. We have broad discretion over the use of available cash and may not realize an adequate return. We have considerable discretion in the application of available cash and have not fixed the amounts that we will apply to various corporate purposes, including potential acquisitions. We may use cash for purposes that do not yield a significant return, if any, for our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents 