Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Company We will continue to incur substantial losses over the next few years and we may never become profitable. We have never been profitable and we may never become profitable. As of June 30, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $274.0 million. We expect to incur additional losses as we continue our development of bremelanotide, PL-3994 and other product candidates. Unless and until we receive approval from the FDA or other equivalent regulatory authorities outside the United States, we cannot sell our products and will not have product revenues from them. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from contract revenue under collaborative development agreements, existing cash balances and outside sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We will need to continue to raise funds in the future, including funds required to complete our Phase 3 clinical trials of bremelanotide for FSD, and funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As of June 30, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $12.2 million, with current liabilities of $1.8 million net of unearned revenues of $1.0 million. In September 2014 we received $8.8 million pursuant to our agreement with Gedeon Richter. We believe we have sufficient currently available working capital to fund our planned operations through the quarter ending September 30, 2015, not including initiation of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for bremelanotide for FSD or other planned clinical trials. We will need additional funding to complete required clinical trials of bremelanotide for FSD and our other product candidates and, assuming those clinical trials are successful, as to which there can be no assurance, complete submission of required regulatory applications to the FDA for any of our product candidates. We are preparing to initiate Phase 3 clinical trials of bremelanotide for FSD, and intend to start patient enrollment in the Phase 3 program in the fourth quarter of calendar 2014, but may curtail or delay clinical trial initiation unless we have adequate funds, or commitments for adequate funds, to complete Phase 3 clinical trials. We estimate that the Phase 3 program, including regulatory filings for product approval, will cost at least $80.0 million. We are seeking funds to support the Phase 3 program through collaborative arrangements on bremelanotide in addition to our agreement with Gedeon Richter, including marketing and distribution partnering agreements, public or private equity or debt financings, and other sources, but such additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We do not have any source of significant recurring revenue and must depend on financing or partnering to sustain our operations. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity financings, debt financings, collaborative arrangements on our product candidates, or other sources. However, additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to develop only certain of our product candidates or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates and/or potential markets. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional funds when needed, we may be required to curtail operations significantly, cease clinical trials and decrease staffing levels. We may seek to license, sell or otherwise dispose of our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights on the best possible terms available. Even if we are able to license, sell or otherwise dispose of our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights, it is likely to be on unfavorable terms and for less value than if we had the financial resources to develop or otherwise advance our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights ourselves. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. Our operations are primarily focused on acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, conducting preclinical and clinical studies and formulating and manufacturing on a small-scale basis our principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for stockholders to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates. 14 We have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our current product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: ● continuing to conduct preclinical development and clinical trials; ● participating in regulatory approval processes; ● formulating and manufacturing products, or having third parties formulate and manufacture products; ● post-approval monitoring and surveillance of our products; ● conducting sales and marketing activities, either alone or with a partner; and ● obtaining additional capital. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, to successfully commercialize any products for which we receive regulatory approval or to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to recover our investment in our development efforts. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of bremelanotide for FSD even if the product is effective in treating FSD. Approval of bremelanotide for treatment of FSD in premenopausal women requires determination by the FDA that the product is both safe and effective. Our Phase 2B clinical trial for FSD demonstrated what we believe is an acceptable safety profile and, at selected doses, statistically significant efficacy. However, results obtained in Phase 3 clinical trials may be inconsistent with results obtained in our Phase 2B study, and may demonstrate either an unacceptable safety profile or insufficient efficacy. It is also possible that safety or efficacy results obtained in Phase 3 clinical trials will be inconclusive. It is not possible to predict, with any assurance, whether the FDA will approve bremelanotide for any indications. The FDA may deny or delay approval of any application for bremelanotide if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety of the drug even if efficacy is established. Bremelanotide could take a significantly longer time to obtain approval than we expect and it may never gain approval. If regulatory approval of bremelanotide is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Even if bremelanotide for FSD obtains regulatory approval in the United States and other countries, it may not achieve significant market acceptance. Regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of bremelanotide for FSD in the United States and other countries does not assure that the product will be a commercial success. While we believe that an on-demand drug for FSD has competitive advantages compared to chronic or daily use hormones and other drugs, we may not be able to realize this perceived advantage in the market. Bremelanotide is administered by subcutaneous injection. While the single-use, disposable autoinjector format is designed to maximize market acceptability, bremelanotide as a subcutaneous injectable drug for FSD may never achieve significant market acceptance. There is no drug approved in the United States for FSD, and thus actual market size and market dynamics are not known. We believe reimbursement of bremelanotide from third party payors such as health insurers, HMOs or other third-party payors of healthcare costs will be limited, and that the ultimate user will pay all or a substantial part of the cost of bremelanotide for FSD. We do not know the market price sensitivity of bremelanotide for FSD, or whether the market will support a product for FSD at the price range that we project. If bremelanotide for FSD does not achieve adequate market acceptance at an acceptable price point, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Development and commercialization of our product candidates involves a lengthy, complex and costly process, and we may never successfully develop or commercialize any product. Our product candidates are at various stages of research and development, will require regulatory approval, and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Our product candidates will require significant further research, development and testing before we can seek regulatory approval to market and sell them. 15 We must demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Preclinical studies in animals, using various doses and formulations, must be performed before we can begin human clinical trials. Even if we obtain favorable results in the preclinical studies, the results in humans may be different. Numerous small-scale human clinical trials may be necessary to obtain initial data on a product candidate’s safety and efficacy in humans before advancing to large-scale human clinical trials. We face the risk that the results of our trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. Adverse or inconclusive results could delay the progress of our development programs and may prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: ● the availability of sufficient capital to sustain operations and clinical trials; ● timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; ● the rate of patient enrollment in clinical studies; ● adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and ● lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. You should evaluate us in light of these uncertainties, delays, difficulties and expenses commonly experienced by early stage biopharmaceutical companies, as well as unanticipated problems and additional costs relating to: ● product approval or clearance; ● regulatory compliance; ● good manufacturing practices; ● intellectual property rights; ● product introduction; and ● marketing and competition. 16 The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and may prevent us from obtaining the approvals that we require. Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the advertising, labeling, storage, record-keeping, safety, efficacy, research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. The steps ordinarily required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States include: ● completion of non-clinical tests including preclinical laboratory and formulation studies and animal testing and toxicology; ● submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; ● performance of adequate and well-controlled Phase 1, 2 and 3 human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication; ● submission to the FDA of an NDA; ● FDA review and approval of the NDA before any commercial marketing or sale; and ● compliance with post-approval commitments and requirements. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements for new drugs typically takes a number of years and the actual time required for approval may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. Once the submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA generally has ten months to review the application and respond to the applicant. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved, but the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of the advisory committee. The FDA may deny or delay approval of applications that do not meet applicable regulatory criteria or if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety and efficacy of the drug. Therefore, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Upon approval, a product candidate may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved by the FDA. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as Phase 4 studies, to monitor the approved products in a larger number of patients than were required for product approval and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-market studies. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to seek injunctions, levy fines and civil penalties, criminal prosecution, withdraw approvals and seize products or request recalls. 17 If regulatory approval of any of our product candidates is granted, it will be limited to certain disease states or conditions. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restriction through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. Outside the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process generally includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Community, or EC, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product to more than one EC member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficiency has been presented, a marketing authorization will be granted. If we do not obtain, or experience difficulties in obtaining, such marketing authorizations, our business and liquidity may be adversely affected. If any approved product does not achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of any of our product candidates does not assure the product’s commercial success. Any approved product will compete with other products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. The degree of market acceptance of any such product will depend on a number of factors, including: ● perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about its safety and effectiveness; ● cost-effectiveness relative to competing products and technologies; ● availability of reimbursement for our products from third party payors such as health insurers, health maintenance organizations and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; and ● advantages over alternative treatment methods. If any approved product does not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and their failure to timely perform their obligations could significantly harm our product development. We rely on outside scientific collaborators such as researchers at clinical research organizations and universities in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials and associated tests. There is competition for these relationships, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. These outside collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates and develop them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. Our drug development programs depend on contract research organizations and other third parties over whom we have no control. We have limited research or development staff and do not have dedicated research or development facilities, and depend on third parties, including independent contractors and preclinical contract research organizations, to conduct preclinical studies under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees, and we have limited control over the resources that they devote to our programs. These collaborators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. These collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these studies fail to comply with agreed protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. 18 Production and supply of our product candidates depend on contract manufacturers over whom we have no control. We do not have the facilities to manufacture bremelanotide, PL-3994, PL-8177, other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds or our other potential products. Our contract manufacturers must perform these manufacturing activities in a manner that complies with FDA regulations. Our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. The manufacturers of approved products and their manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s GMPs regulations. Failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with GMPs or other FDA requirements may result in enforcement action by the FDA. Failure to conduct their activities in compliance with FDA regulations could delay our development programs or negatively impact our ability to receive FDA approval of our potential products or continue marketing if they are approved. Establishing relationships with new suppliers, who must be FDA-approved, is a time-consuming and costly process. We have no experience in marketing, distributing and selling products and will substantially rely on our marketing partners to provide these capabilities. We are developing bremelanotide for FSD, are in early stage development of other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds for sexual dysfunction and other indications and are developing PL-3994 for the treatment of heart failure, asthma and other indications. We do not have marketing partners for any of these products. If any of these products are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we must either develop marketing, distribution and selling capacity and expertise, which will be costly and time consuming, or enter into agreements with other companies to provide these capabilities. We may not be able to enter into suitable agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. We do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our license, co-development and commercialization agreement with Gedeon Richter for bremelanotide for FSD in a licensed territory, we have limited control over development activities, including regulatory approvals, and no direct control over commercialization efforts. Gedeon Richter may abandon further development of bremelanotide in its licensed territory, including terminating the agreement, for any reason, including a change of priorities within Gedeon Richter or lack of success in clinical trials necessary for obtaining regulatory approvals. Because the potential value of the license arrangement with Gedeon Richter is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of bremelanotide for FSD in the licensed territory, the ultimate value of this license will depend on the efforts of Gedeon Richter. If Gedeon Richter does not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval of bremelanotide for FSD in the licensed territory for any reason, or does not succeed in securing market acceptance of bremelanotide for FSD in the territory, or elects for any reason to discontinue development of bremelanotide for FSD, we may be unable to realize the potential value of this arrangement. Under our research collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca for melanocortin-based therapeutic compounds for obesity, diabetes and related metabolic syndrome, we have no direct control over the development of compounds and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. Based on a serious adverse event, AstraZeneca has decided to discontinue development of AZD2820, a subcutaneously-administered peptide melanocortin-4 receptor partial agonist. AstraZeneca may decide to abandon further development of this program, including terminating the agreement, if the results of further development efforts are negative or inconclusive, or if priorities within AstraZeneca change, or for any reason. Because the potential value of the license arrangement with AstraZeneca is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of this license will depend on the efforts of AstraZeneca. If AstraZeneca does not succeed in developing the licensed technology for any reason, or elects for any reason to discontinue the development of this program, we may be unable to realize the potential value of this arrangement. If the market opportunities for bremelanotide and our other products in development are smaller than we anticipate, then our future revenues and business may be adversely affected. There are no FDA approved products for treatment of FSD, and thus the size and other parameters relating to the market are not known. The market opportunity for bremelanotide may be smaller than we anticipate. If it is smaller, it may be difficult for us to find marketing partners for bremelanotide, and our ability to generate bremelanotide revenue and business may be adversely affected. This is also true with respect to PL-3994 and other products in development. Competing products and technologies may make our proposed products noncompetitive. There are other products being developed for FSD, including flibanserin, a daily-use oral drug being developed for hypoactive sexual desire disorder, and a number of daily-use oral and patch drugs incorporating testosterone and oral combination drugs. There is competition to develop drugs for treatment of FSD in both premenopausal and postmenopausal patients. Our bremelanotide drug product is intended to be administered by subcutaneous injection, and an on-demand drug product for the same indication which utilizes another route of administration, such as a conventional oral drug product, may make subcutaneous bremelanotide noncompetitive. 19 There are three oral FDA-approved PDE-5 inhibitor drugs for the treatment of ED, other approved products and devices for ED, and other products in development for treatment of ED, including products in clinical trials. There is competition to develop drugs for ED in patients non-responsive to PDE-5 inhibitor drugs, and to develop drugs for treatment of FSD. There are several products approved for use in treatment of obesity and related indications, and a number of other products being developed for treatment of obesity, including products in clinical trials. There is intense competition to develop drugs for treatment of obesity and related indications. There are a number of products approved for use in treating inflammatory diseases and dermatologic indication, and other products being developed, including products in clinical trials. We are aware of one recombinant natriuretic peptide product for acutely decompensated congestive heart failure approved and marketed in the United States, and another recombinant natriuretic peptide product approved and marketed in Japan. Clinical trials on other natriuretic peptide products are being conducted in the United States. In addition, other products for treatment of heart failure are either currently being marketed or in development, including a combination drug which increases endogenous active ANP levels. There are numerous products approved for use in treatment of asthma, and a number of other products being developed for treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma, including products in clinical trials. There is intense competition to develop drugs for treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We are likely to encounter significant competition with respect to bremelanotide, other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds and PL-3994. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do. Many of them also have significantly greater experience in research and development, marketing, distribution and sales than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing, marketing, distributing and selling products and underlying technologies more rapidly than we can. These competitive products or technologies may be more effective and useful or less costly than bremelanotide, other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds or PL-3994. In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and may develop competing products or technologies on their own or through strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements. Our ability to achieve revenues from the sale of our products in development will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and other healthcare payers. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products in development will depend, in significant part, on the extent to which we or our marketing partners can obtain reimbursement for our products and also reimbursement at appropriate levels for the cost of our products. Obtaining reimbursement from governmental payers, insurance companies, HMOs and other third-party payers of healthcare costs is a time-consuming and expensive process. There is no guarantee that our products will ultimately be reimbursed. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of any pharmaceutical product incorporating new technology and third-party reimbursement might not be available for our proposed products once approved, or if obtained, might not be adequate. There are no approved products for treating FSD, and thus there is significant uncertainty concerning the extent and scope of third-party reimbursement for products treating FSD. Based on third-party reimbursement for approved products treating ED, we believe bremelanotide for FSD will be classified as a Tier 3 drug, so that reimbursement will be limited for bremelanotide for treatment of FSD, assuming the product is approved by the FDA. If we are able to obtain reimbursement, continuing efforts by governmental and third party payers to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect our future revenues and ability to achieve profitability. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic and therapeutic products and related services. Reimbursement from governmental payers is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings and other policy changes, all of which could materially decrease the range of products for which we are reimbursed or the rates of reimbursement by government payers. In addition, recent legislation reforming the healthcare system may result in lower prices or the actual inability of prospective customers to purchase our products in development. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is available, it may not be available at price levels sufficient for us to realize a positive return on our investment. 20 If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot predict: ● the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; ● if and when patents will be issued; ● whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; and ● whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: ● obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; ● redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; ● stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; ● pay damages; or ● defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technologies and other proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. In addition to our reliance on patents, we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies and processes by relying on trade secret laws and agreements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary information. These agreements and arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technologies and processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies and processes or gain access to our trade secrets or technology, either of which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products or cease clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry liability insurance as to certain clinical trial risks. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not in the future be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are highly dependent on our management team, senior staff professionals and third-party contractors and consultants, and the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on our relatively small management team and staff as well as various contractors and consultants to provide critical services. Our ability to execute our bremelanotide, PL-3994 and MC1r peptide clinical programs, and our preclinical programs on MC1r and MC4r peptide drug candidates, depends on our continued retention and motivation of our management and senior staff professionals, including executive officers and senior members of product development and management who possess significant technical expertise and experience and oversee our development programs. If we lose the services of existing key personnel, our development programs could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with contractors, consultants and scientific advisors. 21 There is competition for qualified personnel, contractors and consultants in the pharmaceutical industry, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel, contractors and consultants necessary for the development and growth of our business. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make potential acquisitions more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an “interested stockholder,” unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We are authorized to issue up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent that we sell or otherwise issue authorized but currently unissued shares, this could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If we exercise this right, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our equity incentive plans generally permit us to accelerate the vesting of options and other stock rights granted under these plans in the event of a change of control. If we accelerate the vesting of options or other stock rights, this action could make an acquisition more costly. The application of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Obligations in Our 2012 Private Placement Under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement, we are required to allow purchasers in the 2012 private placement to participate in certain future equity and debt financings, which may restrict our ability to raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all. For six years after our 2012 private placement, unless the purchasers own less than 20% of our outstanding common stock calculated as if the warrants were exercised, the purchasers have the right of first negotiation on any subsequent equity or debt financing. If we do not agree to terms of a financing with them, and negotiate with a third party on a financing, we must offer to sell to the purchasers at least 55% of the financing, and the purchasers may elect to purchase all or a portion of the financing. We will require significant additional resources and capital for our Phase 3 bremelanotide clinical trial program and other clinical trial programs. The right of first negotiation and right of participation granted to the purchasers in our 2012 private placement may make it more difficult to raise additional funding through public or private equity financings, debt financings or other sources. Such funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement, so long as any Series A 2012 or Series B 2012 warrants are outstanding, we are required to redeem Series A 2012 and Series B 2012 warrants at the option of the holders in the event of any takeover, change of control or other fundamental transaction which we permit. Under the purchase agreement and form of warrants for our 2012 private placement, if we permit, make or allow a takeover, change of control or other fundamental transaction, including any transfer of all or substantially all of our properties or assets, then so long as any warrants remain outstanding we are required, as elected by the warrant holders, to pay such holders a warrant early termination price tied to the greater of the then market price of our common stock or the amount per share paid to any other person. The application of these provisions could adversely affect our financial position and have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or other fundamental transaction, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could make any potential acquisition or change of control more costly. Under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement, so long as any Series A 2012 or Series B 2012 warrants are outstanding, we are required to oppose any takeover or change of control that does not provide specified rights to holders of Series A 2012 and Series B 2012 warrants. Under the purchase agreement and form of warrants for our 2012 private placement, so long as any warrants remain outstanding we are required to (i) not permit, (ii) take necessary action to prevent both the occurrence or consummation of, and (iii) not be a party to any fundamental transaction, change of control or similar event unless contractually-specified rights are provided with respect to payment of a warrant early termination price tied to the greater of the then market price of our common stock or the amount per share paid to any other person. 22 We are also required, subject to the exercise by our board of its fiduciary duties, to take all reasonable efforts to adopt a poison pill or any other anti-takeover provision or method necessary to prevent the fundamental transaction, change of control or similar event. The application of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or other fundamental transaction, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could make any potential acquisition or change of control more costly. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock As of September 11, 2014, there were 96,380,178 shares of common stock underlying outstanding convertible preferred stock, options, restricted stock units and warrants. Stockholders may experience dilution from the conversion of preferred stock, exercise of outstanding options and warrants and vesting of restricted stock units. As of September 11, 2014, holders of our outstanding dilutive securities had the right to acquire the following amounts of underlying common stock: ● 52,834 shares issuable on the conversion of immediately convertible Series A Convertible preferred stock, subject to adjustment, for no further consideration; ● 4,229,913 shares issuable on the exercise of stock options, at exercise prices ranging from $0.60 to $37.50 per share; ● 845,900 shares issuable under restricted stock units which vest on dates between June 25, 2015 and June 25, 2018, subject to the fulfillment of service conditions; and ● 91,251,531 shares issuable on the exercise of warrants at exercise prices ranging from $0.01 to $1.50 per share, which includes warrants issued in our 2012 private placement for 67,476,531 shares issuable at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. If the holders convert, exercise or receive these securities, or similar dilutive securities we may issue in the future, stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their common stock. In addition, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares in the marketplace could depress our stock price. We have registered or agreed to register for resale substantially all of the underlying shares listed above. Holders of registered underlying shares could resell the shares immediately upon issuance, which could result in significant downward pressure on our stock price. Our stock price is volatile and we expect it to remain volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: ● publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; ● delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or unsatisfactory designs or results of these trials; ● interim decisions by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, as to clinical trial designs, acceptable safety profiles and the benefit/risk ratio of products under development; ● achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or by us; ● announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; ● developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; ● developments concerning our collaborations; ● regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; ● economic or other crises and other external factors; ● period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and ● sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues, if any, in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer further. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. 23 For the 12 month period ended August 31, 2014, the price of our stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of $1.50 per share to a low of $0.56 per share. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, for the development and expansion of our business. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, consisting of 4,697 shares on September 11, 2014, provides that we may not pay a dividend or make any distribution to holders of any class of stock unless we first pay a special dividend or distribution of $100 per share to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the terms of existing or future agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, our stockholders will not receive a return on their shares unless the value of their shares increases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 