Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Company We will continue to incur substantial losses over the next few years and we may never become profitable. We have never been profitable and we may never become profitable. As of June 30, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $239.2 million. We expect to incur additional losses as we continue our development of bremelanotide, PL-3994 and other product candidates. Unless and until we receive approval from the FDA or other equivalent regulatory authorities outside the United States, we cannot sell our products and will not have product revenues from them. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from reimbursements and other contract revenue under collaborative development agreements, existing cash balances and outside sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 12 We will need to continue to raise funds in the future, and funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As of June 30, 2012, and giving effect to the private placement with net proceeds of $34.5 million which closed on July 3, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $38.3 million, with current liabilities of $3.5 million. We believe we have sufficient currently available working capital to fund our currently planned operations through at least calendar year 2013, but our currently available working capital is not sufficient to complete required clinical trials for any of our product candidates. We will need additional funding to complete required clinical trials and, assuming those clinical trials are successful, as to which there can be no assurance, complete submission of required regulatory applications to the FDA for any of our product candidates. We expect that the Phase 3 bremelanotide clinical trial program for FSD will require significant additional resources and capital. We do not have any source of significant recurring revenue, and must depend on financing or partnering to sustain our operations. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity financings, debt financings, collaborative arrangements on our product candidates or other sources. However, additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to develop only certain of our product candidates or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates and/or potential markets. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional funds when needed, we may be required to curtail operations significantly, cease clinical trials and further decrease staffing levels. We may seek to license, sell or otherwise dispose of our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights, including rights under our research collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca, on the best possible terms available. Even if we are able to license, sell or otherwise dispose of our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights, it is likely to be on unfavorable terms and for less value than if we had the financial resources to develop or otherwise advance our product candidates, technologies and contractual rights ourselves. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. Our operations are primarily focused on acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, conducting preclinical and clinical studies and formulating and manufacturing on a small-scale basis our principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for stockholders to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our current product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to conduct preclinical development and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products, or having third parties formulate and manufacture products; · post-approval monitoring and surveillance of our products; · conducting sales and marketing activities, either alone or with a partner; and · obtaining additional capital. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, to successfully commercialize any products for which we receive regulatory approval or to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to recover our investment in our development efforts. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of bremelanotide for FSD even if the product is effective in treating FSD. Approval of bremelanotide for treatment of FSD in premenopausal women requires determination by the FDA that the product is both safe and effective. Increases in blood pressure observed in some patients receiving nasally administered bremelanotide was a significant factor leading us to discontinue work on nasally administered bremelanotide for sexual dysfunction. Studies we have conducted with subcutaneously administered bremelanotide suggest that transient elevations of blood pressure are dependent on both the specific patient population and the dose administered. Based on these studies, we believe that bremelanotide will be effective in treating FSD at doses that do not result in unacceptable increases in blood pressure or other unacceptable adverse events. However, results obtained in later phases of clinical trials, including our Phase 2B clinical trial and any future Phase 3 clinical trial, may be inconsistent with results obtained in earlier studies, and may demonstrate an unacceptable safety profile. It is also possible that safety or efficacy results obtained in later phases of clinical trials will be inconclusive. It is not possible to predict, with any assurance, whether the FDA will approve bremelanotide for any indications. The FDA may deny or delay approval of any application for bremelanotide if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety of the drug even if efficacy is established. Bremelanotide could take a significantly longer time to obtain approval than we expect and it may never gain approval. If regulatory approval of bremelanotide is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. 13 Development and commercialization of our product candidates involves a lengthy, complex and costly process, and we may never successfully develop or commercialize any product. Our product candidates are at various stages of research and development, will require regulatory approval, and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Our product candidates will require significant further research, development and testing before we can seek regulatory approval to market and sell them. We must demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Preclinical studies in animals, using various doses and formulations, must be performed before we can begin human clinical trials. Even if we obtain favorable results in the preclinical studies, the results in humans may be different. Numerous small-scale human clinical trials may be necessary to obtain initial data on a product candidate’s safety and efficacy in humans before advancing to large-scale human clinical trials. We face the risk that the results of our trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. Adverse or inconclusive results could delay the progress of our development programs and may prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: · the availability of sufficient capital to sustain operations and clinical trials; · timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; · the rate of patient enrollment in clinical studies; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and · lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. You should evaluate us in light of these uncertainties, delays, difficulties and expenses commonly experienced by early stage biopharmaceutical companies, as well as unanticipated problems and additional costs relating to: · product approval or clearance; · regulatory compliance; · good manufacturing practices; · intellectual property rights; · product introduction; and · marketing and competition. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and may prevent us from obtaining the approvals we require. Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the advertising, labeling, storage, record-keeping, safety, efficacy, research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. The steps ordinarily required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States include: · completion of non-clinical tests including preclinical laboratory and formulation studies and animal testing and toxicology; · submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; 14 · performance of adequate and well-controlled Phase 1, 2 and 3 human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication; · submission to the FDA of an NDA; · FDA review and approval of the NDA before any commercial marketing or sale; and · Compliance with post-approval commitments and requirements. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements for new drugs typically takes a number of years and the actual time required for approval may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. Once the submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA generally has ten months to review the application and respond to the applicant. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved, but the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of the advisory committee. The FDA may deny or delay approval of applications that do not meet applicable regulatory criteria or if the FDA determines that the clinical data do not adequately establish the safety and efficacy of the drug. Therefore, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our business and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Upon approval, a product candidate may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved by the FDA. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as Phase 4 studies, to monitor the approved products in a larger number of patients than were required for product approval and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-market studies. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to seek injunctions, levy fines and civil penalties, criminal prosecution, withdraw approvals and seize products or request recalls. If regulatory approval of any of our product candidates is granted, it will be limited to certain disease states or conditions. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restriction through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. Outside the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process generally includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Community, or EC, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product to more than one EC member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficiency has been presented, a marketing authorization will be granted. If we do not obtain, or experience difficulties in obtaining, such marketing authorizations, our business and liquidity may be adversely affected. If any approved product does not achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of any of our product candidates does not assure the product’s commercial success. Any approved product will compete with other products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. The degree of market acceptance of any such product will depend on a number of factors, including: · perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about its safety and effectiveness; · cost-effectiveness relative to competing products and technologies; 15 · availability of reimbursement for our products from third party payors such as health insurers, health maintenance organizations and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; and · advantages over alternative treatment methods. If any approved product does not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and their failure to timely perform their obligations could significantly harm our product development. We rely on outside scientific collaborators such as researchers at clinical research organizations and universities in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials and associated tests. There is competition for these relationships, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. These outside collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates and develop them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. Our drug development programs depend on contract research organizations and other third parties over whom we have no control. We have limited research or development staff and do not have dedicated research or development facilities, and depend on third parties, including independent contractors and preclinical contract research organizations, to conduct preclinical studies under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees, and we have limited control over the resources that they devote to our programs. These collaborators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. These collaborators generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to conduct research on our product candidates. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these studies fail to comply with agreed protocols or fail to meet expected deadlines, our ability to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all, may be adversely affected. Production and supply of our product candidates depend on contract manufacturers over whom we have no control. We do not have the facilities to manufacture bremelanotide, PL-3994, melanocortin receptor agonist compounds or our other potential products. Our contract manufacturers must perform these manufacturing activities in a manner that complies with FDA regulations. Our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. The manufacturers of approved products and their manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s GMPs regulations. Failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with GMPs or other FDA requirements may result in enforcement action by the FDA. Failure to conduct their activities in compliance with FDA regulations could delay our development programs or negatively impact our ability to receive FDA approval of our potential products or continue marketing if they are approved. Establishing relationships with new suppliers, who must be FDA-approved, is a time-consuming and costly process. We have no experience in marketing, distributing and selling products and will substantially rely on our marketing partners to provide these capabilities. We are developing bremelanotide for FSD and may develop other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds for sexual dysfunction and other indications and PL-3994 for the treatment of asthma, heart failure and other indications. We do not have marketing partners for any of these products. If any of these products are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we must either develop marketing, distribution and selling capacity and expertise, which will be costly and time consuming, or enter into agreements with other companies to provide these capabilities. We may not be able to enter into suitable agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. 16 We do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our research collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca for our melanocortin-based therapeutic compounds for obesity, diabetes and related metabolic syndrome, we have no direct control over the development of compounds and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. Based on a serious adverse event, AstraZeneca has decided to discontinue development of AZD2820, a subcutaneously-administered peptide melanocortin-4 receptor partial agonist. AstraZeneca has a number of collaboration compounds in various stages of preclinical testing, and remains committed to the continued advancement of melanocortin agonists for treatment of obesity. If the results of further development efforts are negative or inconclusive, AstraZeneca may decide to abandon further development of this program, including terminating the agreement, by giving us notice of termination. Because much of the potential value of the license arrangement with AstraZeneca is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of this license will depend on the efforts of AstraZeneca. If AstraZeneca does not succeed in developing the licensed technology for any reason, or elects to discontinue the development of this program, we may be unable to realize the potential value of this arrangement. Compounds developed during the collaboration phase of our agreement with AstraZeneca are subject to the same payment terms as licensed compounds, but intellectual property relating to collaboration compounds is owned by AstraZeneca. If AstraZeneca does not succeed in developing collaboration compounds, we will not realize any value with respect to those compounds. If the market opportunities for bremelanotide and our other products in development are smaller than we anticipate, then our future revenues and business may be adversely affected. There are no FDA approved products for treatment of FSD, and thus the size and other parameters relating to the market are not known. The market opportunity for bremelanotide may be smaller than we anticipate. If it is smaller, it may be difficult for us to find marketing partners for bremelanotide, and our ability to generate bremelanotide revenue and business may be adversely affected. This is also true with respect to PL-3994 and other products in development. Competing products and technologies may make our proposed products noncompetitive. There are other products being developed for FSD, including a product currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. There is competition to develop drugs for treatment of FSD in both premenopausal and postmenopausal patients. Our bremelanotide drug product is intended to be administered by subcutaneous injection, and a drug product for the same indication which utilizes another route of administration, such as a conventional oral drug product, may make subcutaneous bremelanotide noncompetitive. There are three oral FDA-approved PDE-5 inhibitor drugs for the treatment of ED, other approved products and devices for ED, and other products in development for treatment of ED, including products in clinical trials. There is competition to develop drugs for ED in patients non-responsive to PDE-5 inhibitor drugs, and to develop drugs for treatment of FSD. There are a large number of products approved for use in asthma, and a number of other products being developed for treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma, including products in clinical trials. There is intense competition to develop drugs for treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma. We are aware of one recombinant natriuretic peptide product for acutely decompensated congestive heart failure approved and marketed in the United States, and another recombinant natriuretic peptide product approved and marketed in Japan. Clinical trials on other natriuretic peptide products are being conducted in the United States. In addition, other products for treatment of heart failure are either currently being marketed or in development. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We are likely to encounter significant competition with respect to bremelanotide, other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds and PL-3994. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do. Many of them also have significantly greater experience in research and development, marketing, distribution and sales than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing, marketing, distributing and selling products and underlying technologies more rapidly than we can. These competitive products or technologies may be more effective and useful or less costly than bremelanotide, other melanocortin receptor agonist compounds or PL-3994. In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and may develop competing products or technologies on their own or through strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements. 17 Our ability to achieve revenues from the sale of our products in development will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and other healthcare payers. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products in development will depend, in significant part, on the extent to which we or our marketing partners can obtain reimbursement for our products and also reimbursement at appropriate levels for the cost of our products. Obtaining reimbursement from governmental payers, insurance companies, HMOs and other third-party payers of healthcare costs is a time-consuming and expensive process. There is no guarantee that our products will ultimately be reimbursed. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of any pharmaceutical product incorporating new technology and we are not sure whether third-party reimbursement will be available for our proposed products once approved, or that the reimbursement, if obtained, will be adequate. There are no approved products for treating FSD, and thus is significant uncertainty concerning the extent and scope of third-party reimbursement for products treating FSD. If we are able to obtain reimbursement, continuing efforts by governmental and third party payers to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect our future revenues and ability to achieve profitability. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic and therapeutic products and related services. Reimbursement from governmental payers is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings and other policy changes, all of which could materially decrease the range of products for which we are reimbursed or the rates of reimbursement by government payers. In addition, recent legislation reforming the healthcare system may result in lower prices or the actual inability of prospective customers to purchase our products in development. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is available, it may not be available at price levels sufficient for us to realize a positive return on our investment. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot predict: · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; · if and when patents will be issued; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; and · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technologies and other proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. In addition to our reliance on patents, we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies and processes by relying on trade secret laws and agreements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary information. These agreements and arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technologies and processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies and processes or gain access to our trade secrets or technology, either of which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. 18 We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products or cease clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry liability insurance as to certain clinical trial risks. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not in the future be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are highly dependent on our management team, senior staff professionals and third-party contractors and consultants, and the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on our relatively small management team and staff as well as various contractors and consultants to provide critical services. Our ability to execute our bremelanotide clinical programs and our preclinical programs on an inhaled formulation of PL-3994 and a new peptide drug candidates for sexual dysfunction and other indications depends on our continued retention and motivation of our management and senior staff professionals, including executive officers and senior members of product development and management who possess significant technical expertise and experience and oversee our development programs. If we lose the services of existing key personnel, our development programs could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with contractors, consultants and scientific advisors. There is competition for qualified personnel, contractors and consultants in the pharmaceutical industry, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel, contractors and consultants necessary for the development and growth of our business. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make potential acquisitions more difficult and could result in the entrenchment of management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control or efforts to remove management more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an “interested stockholder,” unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Pursuant to approval by our stockholders at the annual meeting of stockholders held on May 11, 2011, we increased our authorized common stock from 40,000,000 to 100,000,000. We are seeking an increase in our authorized common stock to 200,000,000 shares, and have called a special meeting of stockholders for September 27, 2012 at which this matter will be voted on. To the extent that we sell newly authorized shares, this could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If we exercise this right, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our equity incentive plans generally permit us to accelerate the vesting of options and other stock rights granted under these plans in the event of a change of control. If we accelerate the vesting of options or other stock rights, this action could make an acquisition more costly. The application of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 19 Risks Relating to Obligations in Our 2012 Private Financing Our ability to enter into debt or equity financings is contractually limited for a period under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement of 3,873,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to 67,476,531 shares of our common stock. Under the purchase agreement and form of warrants for our 2012 private placement which closed on July 3, 2012, we cannot offer, sell or grant any of our equity securities, other than to employees, consultants, officers or directors under an approved stock plan, or enter into any debt placement except in limited circumstances, until the later of September 1, 2013 and the date our stockholders vote to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock, or if earlier, the date no Series B 2012 warrants remain outstanding. We do not anticipate needing to raise additional funds prior to September 1, 2013 through the sale of equity securities. However, assuming our drug candidates continue advancing, we will require significant additional resources and capital at some time after September 1, 2013 for our Phase 3 bremelanotide clinical trial program and other clinical trial programs. If our stockholders have not voted to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock by September 1, 2013, we may not be able to raise additional funds through either equity or debt financings, may be required to curtail operations significantly, cease clinical trials and further decrease staffing levels and may not be to able continue operating as a going concern. Under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement, we are required to allow purchasers in the 2012 private placement to participate in certain future equity and debt financings, which may restrict our ability to raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all. For six years after our 2012 private placement, unless the purchasers own less than 20% of our outstanding common stock calculated as if the warrants were exercised, the purchasers have the right of first negotiation on any subsequent equity or debt financing. If we do not agree to terms of a financing with them, and negotiate with a third party on a financing, we must offer to sell to the purchasers at least 55% of the financing, and the purchasers may elect to purchase all or a portion of the financing. Assuming our drug candidates continue advancing, we will require significant additional resources and capital at some time for our Phase 3 bremelanotide clinical trial program and other clinical trial programs. The right of first negotiation and right of participation granted to the purchasers in our 2012 private placement may make it more difficult to raise additional funding through public or private equity financings, debt financings or other sources. Such funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Under agreements relating to our 2012 private placement, so long as any Series A 2012 or Series B 2012 warrants are outstanding, we are required to oppose any takeover or change of control that does not provide specified rights to holders of Series A 2012 and Series B 2012 warrants. Under the purchase agreement and form of warrants for our 2012 private placement, so long as any warrants remain outstanding we are required to (i) not permit, (ii) take necessary action to prevent both the occurrence or consummation of, and (iii) not be a party to any fundamental transaction, change of control or similar event unless contractually-specified rights are provided with respect to payment of a warrant early termination price tied to the greater of the then market price of our common stock or the amount per share paid to any other person. We are also required, subject to the exercise by our board of its fiduciary duties, to take all reasonable efforts to adopt a poison pill or any other anti-takeover provision or method necessary to prevent the fundamental transaction, change of control or similar event. The application of the provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or other fundamental transaction, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could make any potential acquisition of similar change of control more costly. If we fail to obtain stockholder approval to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock by specified dates, we will be required to pay interest on the value of the shares of common stock underlying the Series B 2012 warrants that cannot be issued. In the event that we do not increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock on or prior to September 30, 2012, then until either the authorized number of shares of common stock is increased or such time as no Series B 2012 warrants remain outstanding, we are contractually obligated to pay interest semi-annually on the value of the Series B 2012 warrants at 10% per year. The value of the Series B 2012 warrants is the greater of $0.50 per share underlying the Series B 2012 warrants and the average of the dollar volume-weighted average price of our common stock for each trading day in the six month period during which interest is payable. There are Series B 2012 warrants to purchase up to 35,488,380 shares of our common stock currently outstanding. Based upon the $0.50 minimum value per share for purposes of calculating interest, the minimum annual interest payment would be $1,774,419. There is no maximum value per share for purposes of calculating interest. If we are required to pay interest, this will reduce the amount of our capital available for development of our product candidates, and will result in expenditures that provide no economic benefit to our stockholders other than holders of Series B 2012 warrants. We have called a special meeting of stockholders for September 27, 2012 to vote on increasing the authorized number of shares of our common stock. If the stockholders approve the increase, then no interest will be payable on the Series B 2012 warrants. However, there can be no assurance that the stockholders will approve the increase at the special meeting on September 27, 2012 or ever. 20 If we fail to obtain stockholder approval to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock by specified dates, we may be required to redeem the Series B 2012 warrants, which redemption is at a price related to the then current average price of our common stock. If we have not increased the authorized number of shares of our common stock on or prior to September 30, 2012, then at any time the holders of the Series B 2012 warrants may deliver a “Put Notice” to us. This Put Notice requires that we, on June 30, 2013 or within five days of any later date when a Put Notice is delivered, redeem all or a part of any Series B 2012 warrant. To redeem, we must pay the holder an amount equal to the number of shares underlying the Series B 2012 warrant to be redeemed multiplied by the average of the highest ten consecutive day dollar volume-weighted average price of our common stock at any time after July 3, 2012 and until the later of June 30, 2013 or the date the Put Notice is delivered to us. The following table illustrates the redemption price payable, if the holders of Series B 2012 warrants have delivered a Put Notice as to all Series B 2012 warrants, and if the stockholders have not increased the authorized number of shares of common stock by June 30, 2013. Redemption Price of All Series B 2012 Warrants (35,488,380 Shares) Highest 10-Day Price of Common Stock Redemption Price $0.50 $17,744,190 $0.75 $26,616,285 $1.00 $35,488,380 $2.00 $70,976,760 The holder of a Series B 2012 warrant can deliver a Put Notice as to any portion of that Series B 2012 warrant. Thus, a holder could deliver a Put Notice as to a portion of its Series B 2012 warrant and, after June 30, 2013, compel redemption as to the specified portion, and could continue to hold the remaining portion of the Series B 2012 warrant. The portion of the Series B 2012 warrant which is not redeemed pursuant to the Put Notice will continue accruing interest, and the holder can thereafter, at any time, deliver a Put Notice as to the remaining portion of the Series B 2012 warrant. At any time after a Put Notice is delivered and until the redemption price is paid, the holder may withdraw a Put Notice and may thereafter deliver another Put Notice. If the ten consecutive day dollar volume-weighted price of our common stock increases prior to delivering a subsequent Put Notice, then that higher price will be used to calculate the price to redeem the Series B 2012 warrant shares. The redemption price is a function solely of the ten consecutive day dollar volume-weighted price of our common stock, and there is no upper limit on the redemption price. We may not have sufficient funds to pay redemption prices when due, and in that event will not be able to continue operating as a going concern. If we have sufficient funds to pay the redemption prices, this will reduce the amount of our capital available for development of our product candidates, and will result in expenditures that provide no economic benefit to our stockholders other than holders of Series B 2012 warrants. We have called a special meeting of stockholders for September 27, 2012 to vote on increasing the authorized number of shares of our common stock. If the stockholders approve the increase, then the Series B 2012 warrants will no longer be subject to redemption at the option of the holder. However, there can be no assurance that the stockholders will approve the increase at the special meeting on September 27, 2012 or ever. Until our stockholders increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock, under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” the portion of the Series B 2012 warrants above the then authorized level of our common stock will be required to be classified as a liability and carried at their current fair value on our balance sheet and financial statements. Until our stockholders increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock, under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” the portion of the Series B 2012 warrants above the then authorized level of our common stock will be required to be classified as a liability and carried at their current fair value on our balance sheet. We will be required to calculate the then current fair value of the Series B 2012 warrants each quarter, and classify this amount as a liability, with the change in fair value recorded as income or expense in our statement of operations. The fair value will be calculated by multiplying the number of shares underlying the Series B 2012 warrants above the then authorized level of our common stock by the closing price of our common stock on the last day in the relevant quarter or other period less the exercise price of $0.01 per share. When the stockholders increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock, the Series B 2012 warrants will cease to be classified as a liability, and the then fair value of the warrant liability will be reclassified into stockholders’ equity. The following table shows the aggregate fair value as of July 3, 2012 (the closing date of the private placement offering) and hypothetically for June 30, 2013. This table assumes that all Series B 2012 warrants are above the then authorized level of our common stock, and assumes, solely for purposes of illustration, that the closing common stock price per share at June 30, 2013 is $1.00. The $1.00 closing price per share at June 30, 2013 is only an example, and the actual common stock price per share may be materially different. 21 July 3, 2012 June 30, 2013 Aggregate fair value $ 17,034,422 $ 35,133,496 Exercise price $ 0.01 $ 0.01 Common stock price (per share) $ 0.49 $ 1.00 As can be seen from this table, and assuming that the closing price of our common stock at June 30, 2013 is $1.00, we would be required to carry the aggregate fair value of $35,133,496 as a liability on our balance sheet. That amount will directly decrease our stockholders’ equity, and based on our projections, will cause our stockholders’ equity to fall below $6,000,000. If our stockholders’ equity falls below $6,000,000 in any quarter, we will no longer be in compliance with continued listing standards of the principal exchange on which our common stock trades, NYSE MKT (formerly NYSE Amex). If we are not in compliance with continued listing standards, our common stock may be delisted from NYSE MKT. If we are delisted, then our common stock will trade, if at all, only on the over-the-counter market, and then only if one or more registered broker-dealer market makers comply with quotation requirements. Delisting of our common stock from NYSE MKT could also further depress our stock price, substantially limit liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NYSE MKT could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We have called a special meeting of stockholders for September 27, 2012 to vote on increasing the authorized number of shares of our common stock. If the stockholders approve the increase, then the Series B 2012 warrants will no longer be classified as a liability, and the then fair value of the warrant liability will be reclassified into stockholders’ equity. However, there can be no assurance that the stockholders will approve the increase at the special meeting on September 27, 2012 or ever. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock As of September 7, 2012, there were 59,892,435 shares of common stock underlying outstanding convertible preferred stock, options, restricted stock units and warrants (excluding 35,488,380 shares underlying Series B 2012 warrants – see the paragraph below the bullet list). Stockholders may experience dilution from the conversion of preferred stock, exercise of outstanding options and warrants and vesting of restricted stock units. As of September 7, 2012, holders of our outstanding dilutive securities had the right to acquire the following amounts of underlying common stock: · 52,834 shares issuable on the conversion of immediately convertible Series A Convertible preferred stock, subject to adjustment, for no further consideration; · 2,758,633 shares issuable on the exercise of stock options, at exercise prices ranging from $0.65 to $42.10 per share; · 472,500 shares issuable under restricted stock units which vest on dates between June 22, 2013 and July 17, 2014, subject to the fulfillment of service conditions; and · 56,608,468 shares issuable on the exercise of warrants at exercise prices ranging from $0.01 to $4.12 per share. In addition to the securities listed above, in the private placement which closed July 3, 2012 we issued Series B 2012 warrants to purchase up to 35,488,380 shares of common stock at $0.01 per share. These warrants will not be exercisable unless and until we increase our authorized capital (the maximum number of shares of common stock that we can issue). We have called a special meeting of stockholders for September 27, 2012 to vote on approving an increase. If the stockholders approve the increase, then the Series B 2012 warrants will become exercisable. In that case, a total of 95,380,815 shares will be issuable on conversion, exercise or vesting of these dilutive securities. 22 If the holders convert, exercise or receive these securities, or similar dilutive securities we may issue in the future, stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their common stock. In addition, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares in the marketplace could depress our stock price. We have registered or agreed to register for resale substantially all of the underlying shares listed above. Holders of registered underlying shares could resell the shares immediately upon issuance, which could result in significant downward pressure on our stock price. Our stock price is volatile and we expect it to remain volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; · delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or unsatisfactory designs or results of these trials; · interim decisions by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, as to clinical trial designs, acceptable safety profiles and the benefit/risk ratio of products under development; · achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or by us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · whether our stockholders approve an increase in our authorized common stock, such that we avoid interest payments and certain other contractual obligations relating to our Series B 2012 warrants; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues, if any, in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer further. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. For the 12 month period ended August 31, 2012, the price of our stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of $1.20 per share to a low of $0.39 per share. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, for the development and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or future agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, our stockholders will not receive a return on their shares unless the value of their shares increases. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 