ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We derive substantially all our income from sales of FUZEON. If we are unable to sustain FUZEON sales above a critical threshold, our business will suffer and may become unprofitable. FUZEON competes with numerous existing therapies for the treatment of HIV. Beginning in 2007, we have observed a continuous decline in sales of FUZEON that has continued through year-end 2010. We cannot predict when the trend of decreasing sales will end and if, or when, sales levels will stabilize. For example, although United States sales began to stabilize in the second half of 2010, sales outside of the United States have continued to fall. FUZEON sales are currently our only significant source of revenue. In addition to the observed declines in revenue, we may see decreases in profitability associated with decreasing economies-of-scale related to production, distribution and marketing of the product. If together with Roche, we cannot maintain the same levels of profitability for FUZEON our business could be materially harmed. If we are unable to agree on favorable terms with Roche on the calculation of cost of goods sold for FUZEON, our business could be materially harmed. As previously disclosed, in April 2009, we notified Roche that we did not agree with the manner in which FUZEON cost of goods sold was being calculated and charged to the collaboration. We have been in discussions with Roche regarding this calculation for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. In October 2010, Roche informed us that, in reliance on a clause in the Development and License Agreement that permits Roche to reduce its royalty payments to us if the cost of goods sold outside the United States and Canada exceeds a certain proportion of FUZEON net sales outside the United States and Canada, Roche would reduce our royalty payment rate on sales outside the United States and Canada from 12%, the amount previously paid, to 6% with application retroactive to January 1, 2010. We have notified Roche of our objection to the timing and application of the royalty reduction clause, both under the terms of the contract and in light of our ongoing discussions with Roche related to the calculation of cost of goods sold. While we are considering all available options for resolution of this issue, we currently intend to continue working with Roche to reach agreement on the appropriate cost of goods sold for FUZEON. If we are unable to agree upon favorable terms regarding the cost of goods sold our business will suffer because our share of net profits could be reduced as cost of goods increases. Additionally, royalty rates paid by Roche to us for sales outside the United States and Canada could be substantially reduced for the periods in dispute or future periods. We could incur significant costs pursuing a resolution of this dispute with Roche, and our critical business relationship with Roche could be adversely affected. We do not control the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche’s Boulder facility where FUZEON is manufactured and we cannot ensure that significant costs associated with scheduling decisions will not be incurred. Roche manufactures FUZEON bulk drug substance at its facility in Boulder, Colorado. Roche coordinates the manufacture of FUZEON with the balance of its manufacturing efforts. We do not have input into the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche’s Boulder facility and Roche’s decisions in this area may result in significant additional cost and expense relating to the manufacture of FUZEON. 12 Table of Contents We face intense competition in our efforts to increase sales of FUZEON as a commercially successful drug. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We are engaged in the HIV treatment sector of the biopharmaceutical industry which is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. We expect that new developments by other companies and academic institutions in the areas of HIV treatment will continue at a rapid pace. FUZEON competes with numerous existing therapies, as well as a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and will become available in the future for the treatment of HIV. For example, approximately 32 anti-HIV drugs are currently approved in the United States for the treatment of HIV, including drugs produced by GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead, Merck, Roche, Pfizer, Tibotec and Abbott Laboratories. Of the currently-approved drugs, only FUZEON is a viral fusion inhibitor. In addition, we believe that other companies may be currently engaged in research efforts to develop viral fusion inhibitors. We expect to face intense and increasing competition in the future as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. We cannot assure you that existing or new drugs for the treatment of HIV developed by our competitors will not be more effective, less expensive or more effectively marketed and sold than FUZEON. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we do. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the value of their inventions for the treatment of HIV and are more actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. If FUZEON does not maintain its market acceptance, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of FUZEON. FUZEON is the only drug candidate for which we have obtained FDA approval and we are not seeking FDA approval for any other drug candidates. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues and profits, if any, will depend entirely on the success of FUZEON. Commercial sales of FUZEON depend primarily on Roche’s ability to manufacture commercial quantities of FUZEON on a cost-effective basis with the requisite quality and to successfully market FUZEON throughout the world. FUZEON is delivered via a twice daily dosing by injection under the skin. All of the other currently approved drug treatments for HIV are delivered orally. Patients and physicians often do not readily accept daily injections of an anti-HIV drug treatment, which limits FUZEON’s acceptance in the market compared to other competing drugs. Moreover, because peptides are expensive to manufacture, the price of FUZEON is higher than the prices of currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments. The wholesale acquisition cost of one year’s supply of FUZEON in the United States is approximately $30,600. This price is significantly higher than any of the other approved anti-HIV drugs. Furthermore, the indication approved by the FDA is for the use of FUZEON in combination with other anti-HIV drugs, and is more restrictive than the indication for other approved anti-HIV drugs. Physicians may not readily prescribe FUZEON due to cost-benefit considerations when compared with other anti-HIV drug treatments. Higher prices could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for FUZEON from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future events could substantially decrease our royalty payments from Roche for sales of FUZEON in territories outside the United States and Canada. Pursuant to the Development and License Agreement, if Roche determines, in good faith, that Roche must make payments under patent rights or know-how controlled by a third-party that are necessary for the sale of FUZEON in a given country outside the United States and Canada, Roche may reduce the royalty paid to us on sales in such country or countries by up to 50%. 13 Table of Contents Additionally, Roche currently has or may have sales in jurisdictions where we do not have an issued patent. Pursuant to the Development and License Agreement, if in any calendar quarter, a third party is able to obtain a significant percentage of the market for HIV drugs in a country outside the United States and Canada by selling a product containing T-20, the active ingredient of FUZEON, Roche may reduce the royalty paid to us on sales in such country or countries by up to 50%. We cannot prevent the issuance or granting of valid third party intellectual party rights in any jurisdiction or sales of third party products that contain T-20. If such intellectual property rights emerge, and Roche incurs payment obligations with respect to those rights, or a third party achieves significant market penetration, with a product containing T-20, our business will suffer as royalty rates paid by Roche to us for sales outside the United States and Canada could be substantially reduced. In order to remain profitable we will need to maintain arrangements with Roche or other third parties for the sale, marketing and distribution of FUZEON. We currently have insufficient internal resources to support and implement worldwide sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals. We currently rely on Roche for the sales, marketing and distribution of FUZEON, in accordance with the marketing terms contained in our Development and License Agreement. Roche may terminate this agreement at any time with advance notice. If Roche fails to adequately market FUZEON, we do not have the ability under our Development and License Agreement to establish our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. If Roche ceased to market FUZEON and we were unable to reach agreement with one or more other marketing partners, we would be required to develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We would likely not be able to establish cost-effective sales, marketing or distribution capabilities ourselves and we may not be able to make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on acceptable terms on a timely basis, if at all. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. Our agreement with Roche, and any sales, marketing or distribution arrangements we establish with other parties, gives Roche, and may give those parties, significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of FUZEON, including: • market identification; • marketing methods; • pricing; • drug positioning; • composition and deployment of sales force; and • promotional effort and activities. We may not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that Roche or any third party may devote to FUZEON. Roche ceased fielding a FUZEON sales force in June 2010 and we have agreed with Roche that there will be fewer commercial initiatives directed towards expanding access. If sufficient amounts of FUZEON, cannot be manufactured on a cost-effective basis by Roche or another third party, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Peptide-based therapeutics are made from long chains of molecular building blocks called amino acids. FUZEON is a large peptide composed of a precise 36-amino acid sequence. Large peptides are difficult and expensive to manufacture because the process of creating commercial quantities of a large peptide is lengthy and complicated. As part of the collaboration with Roche, we have selected Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado to manufacture commercial quantities of the bulk drug substance of FUZEON and one of Roche’s manufacturing facilities to produce the finished drug product from such bulk drug substance through a process involving lyophilization, or freeze-drying. The process Roche is currently using to manufacture FUZEON bulk drug substance requires approximately five 14 Table of Contents months to complete and is extremely complicated, requiring over 100 separate, precisely controlled chemical reactions. Roche is currently manufacturing FUZEON bulk drug substance on a commercial scale, and producing the finished drug product on a commercial scale. However, as a result of this complex manufacturing process, Roche may encounter unexpected difficulties or expense in manufacturing FUZEON in the future. In addition, if sales of FUZEON do not increase, Roche could be forced to scale back manufacturing at the Boulder facility to levels that are less than optimal. Diminished sales of FUZEON will not allow us to achieve the economies of scale that keep our cost of goods low. Any increase in cost of goods would, in turn, decrease our gross margin and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. Roche, or other third-party manufacturers that we may engage in the future, may not perform as agreed or remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce and market FUZEON. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance of FUZEON on a commercial scale is extremely limited. In addition, only a limited number of third-party manufacturers have the capability to produce a finished drug product on a commercial scale through a process involving lyophilization. In the event the intended manufacturing plan generates insufficient supplies of FUZEON, or Roche’s Boulder facility ceases operation for any reason, we do not have an alternate manufacturing plan in place at this time and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. We would likely not be able to establish manufacturing capabilities ourselves and we may not be able to make arrangements with third-party manufacturers to produce and market FUZEON on acceptable terms on a timely basis, if at all. We do not have insurance to cover any shortages or other problems in the manufacturing of FUZEON. If Roche, or any other potential third-party manufacturer, fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished drug product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities at a substantially equivalent cost and on a timely basis, our ability to deliver FUZEON could be materially and adversely affected. HIV is likely to develop resistance to FUZEON, which could adversely affect demand for FUZEON and harm our competitive position. HIV is prone to genetic mutations that can produce viral strains resistant to particular drug treatments. HIV has developed resistance, in varying degrees, to each of the currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments, including FUZEON. As a result, combination therapy, or the prescribed use of three or more anti-HIV drugs, has become the preferred method of treatment for HIV-infected patients, because in combination these drugs may prove effective against strains of HIV that have become resistant to one or more drugs in the combination. In the clinical trials we have conducted to date, HIV has demonstrated the ability to develop resistance to FUZEON, as it has with respect to all other currently-marketed anti-HIV drugs. If HIV, in a wide patient population, in a short time period, develops resistance to FUZEON when used in combination therapy, it would adversely affect demand for FUZEON and harm our competitive position. In order to move forward with the development and commercialization of TRI-1144 we would need to partner with a company that has the requisite expertise and capabilities related to the development, manufacturing, sale, marketing and distribution of drugs. We currently have insufficient internal resources to support and implement worldwide development, sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals. Should we decide to move forward with the development and commercialization of TRI-1144, we would need to make arrangements with third parties for development, sales, marketing and distribution. There can be no assurance that we would be able to make such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently do not have any plans to develop and commercialize TRI-1144 beyond the Phase I single ascending dose trial completed in 2008. 15 Table of Contents If Roche does not maintain good manufacturing practices, it could negatively impact our business. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that FUZEON be manufactured according to good manufacturing practice regulations. The failure by Roche or any other third-party manufacturers to maintain current good manufacturing practices compliance and/or our failure to increase our manufacturing processes as needed to meet demand for FUZEON could lead the FDA to withdraw approvals previously granted or lead to other regulatory action. In addition, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process with respect to FUZEON, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or location or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials we have conducted. If we are unable to demonstrate this equivalence, we will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply or use the modified process. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence, and our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited exclusive protection and do not protect against infringement. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our assets and business could be materially harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our collaborators and licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights for our drugs and technologies. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the biotechnology field in which we operate is still evolving and involves a great deal of uncertainty. Although we own or exclusively license approximately 41 issued U.S. patents, and numerous pending U.S. patent applications, corresponding foreign patents and patent applications, including issued patents and patent applications relating to FUZEON, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure how much protection, if any, our patents will provide if we attempt to enforce them and/or if the patents are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. In addition, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents can be substantial. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, third parties may be able to use our patented technologies without paying licensing fees or royalties to us. Further, we cannot assure that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Because U.S. patent applications may be maintained in secrecy until a patent issues or is otherwise published, we cannot assure that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications. Moreover, we cannot assure that we were the first to invent the technology, which, under U.S. patent law, is a prerequisite to obtaining patent coverage. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application on the technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, i.e., which party was the first to invent. The costs of these proceedings can be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims. Such proceedings are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or enforceable or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that its technology is not covered by our patents. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Recently, several generic drug-makers in countries such as India have offered to sell HIV drugs currently protected under U.S. patents to patients in Africa at prices significantly below those offered by the drugs’ patent holders in other countries. There is a risk that these drugs produced by the generic drug-makers could be illegally made or imported into the United States and other countries at prices below those charged by the drugs’ patent holders. If any of these actions occur with respect to our drugs, it could limit the amount we could charge for our drugs. In addition to our patented technology, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may 16 Table of Contents independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We require each of our employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting or collaborative relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and market price of our stock. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may materially harm our business or prevent us from developing or finding a collaboration partner for our drug candidate TRI-1144. Other companies, universities and research institutions conduct research and development efforts in market segments, including viral fusion inhibition and the treatment of HIV infection, where we and our collaborators focus research and development activities. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our collaborators with respect to technologies used in FUZEON or our drug candidate TRI-1144. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of third party patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our other business operations. Uncertainties relating to third-party reimbursement and health care reform measures could limit the amount we will be able to charge for our drugs and adversely affect our results of operations. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription drugs depend, in part, on the consumer’s ability to obtain reimbursement for the cost of the drugs from third-party payors, such as private and government insurance programs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services in an effort to promote cost containment measures and alternative health care delivery systems. Because of the high cost of the treatment of HIV, many state legislatures are also reassessing reimbursement policies for this therapy. If third-party payor reimbursements for FUZEON are not available or are not available at a level that will allow us or our current or future collaborative partners to sell these drugs on a competitive basis, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, emphasis in the United States on the reduction of the overall costs of health care through managed care has increased and will continue to increase the pressure to reduce the prices of pharmaceutical products. The wholesale acquisition cost of a one year supply of FUZEON in the United States is approximately $30,600. A high drug price could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for our drugs from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Roche has made significant progress in achieving reimbursement from the various payors in the United States. Currently FUZEON is covered by Medicaid in all 50 states. In addition, all of the 50 state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs and a majority of private insurers provide some amount of access to FUZEON. However there are reimbursement challenges remaining. Some of the payors require patients to meet minimum medical requirements, such as CD4 cell levels, to receive reimbursement. Other payors limit the number of patients that they will provide reimbursement for FUZEON, and other payors may require co-payments by the patient in order to receive reimbursement for FUZEON that are significantly higher than those required for other anti-HIV drugs. Several major pharmaceutical companies have offered to sell their anti-HIV drugs at or below cost to certain countries in Africa and Least Developed Countries (as defined by the United Nations), which could adversely affect the reimbursement climate, and the prices that may be charged, for HIV medications in the United States and the rest of the world. Third-party payors could exert pressure for price reductions in the United States and the rest of the world based on these offers to Africa and Least Developed Countries. This price pressure could limit the amount that we would be able to charge for our drugs. 17 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. If our operating results for a particular period deviate from the levels expected by investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate over time, due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: • the market acceptance and sales levels for FUZEON; • the status and progress of the Development and License Agreement with Roche, including resolution of the cost of goods sold issue discussed above under Item 1, “Business—Commercial Results” and “—Roche Collaboration”; • the timing of regulatory actions; • our ability to maintain manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities with Roche or other third parties, or to establish such capabilities internally; and • technological and other changes in the competitive landscape. As a result, we believe that comparing our results of operations for one period against another period is not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on our results of operations in prior periods as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations for a period deviate from the levels expected by investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain the standards for internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our stock price could be materially harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 has required and will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In future years our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that we would be required to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We rely on our collaborative partner Roche to timely deliver important financial information relating to FUZEON sales and expenses. In the event that this information is inaccurate, incomplete or not timely we will not be able to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. Under the Development and License Agreement, Roche has significant control over the sale and distribution of FUZEON to wholesalers. Roche sets the price of FUZEON to wholesalers, along with any rebates and incentives, and the terms of any returns. Roche records all sales of FUZEON. As such, Roche has exclusive control over the flow of important information relating to the sale of FUZEON that we require in order to timely and accurately report in our SEC filings. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Roche endeavors to provide us with timely and accurate financial data related to the sale of FUZEON so that we may meet our reporting requirements under federal securities laws. In the event that Roche fails to provide us with timely and accurate information, we may incur significant liability with respect to the federal securities laws, our disclosure controls and procedures under Sarbanes-Oxley and possibly be forced to restate our financial statements, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Our charter requires us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which obligates us to make substantial payments and to incur significant insurance-related expenses. Our charter requires that we indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. This could require us, with some legally prescribed exceptions, to indemnify our directors and officers against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement of an action, suit or proceeding brought against any of them by reason of the fact that he or she is or was our director or officer. In addition, expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending any such action, suit or proceeding must be paid by us in advance of the final disposition of that action, suit or proceeding if we receive an undertaking by the director or officer to repay us if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. In furtherance of these obligations, we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance in the amount of $20 million. For future renewals, if we are able to retain coverage, we may be required to pay a higher premium for our directors’ and officers’ insurance than in the past and/or the amount of our insurance coverage may be decreased. The NASDAQ Global Market may delist our common stock, which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our common stock. Our common stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules require, among other things, that our Audit Committee have at least three members. On November 19, 2010, we announced that James R. Thomas had resigned from our Audit Committee on November 18, 2010 in connection with his assuming the role of chief financial officer. As a result of Mr. Thomas’ resignation, the composition of our Audit Committee was reduced from three members to two members. On December 9, 2010, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department indicating that we are not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules with respect to audit committee composition requirements as a result of Mr. Thomas’ resignation. Consistent with Marketplace Rule 5605(c)(4)(A), NASDAQ has provided us with a cure period, which runs until the earlier of November 18, 2011 or our next annual meeting of stockholders, to regain compliance. If our annual meeting of stockholders is held before May 17, 2011, then compliance with the listing standard must be achieved no later than May 11, 2011. If we are not able to comply with this requirement by the end of the cure period, NASDAQ may delist our common stock. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, the trading market for our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Available Information We maintain a website on the World Wide Web at www.trimeris.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 