ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 15 Table of Contents We derive substantially all our income from the sales of FUZEON. If we are unable to sustain sales above a critical threshold, our business will suffer and may become unprofitable. FUZEON competes with numerous existing therapies for the treatment of HIV. Beginning in 2007, we have observed a continuous decline in sales of FUZEON that has continued through year-end 2009. We cannot predict when the trend of decreasing sales will end and if, or when, sales levels will stabilize. FUZEON sales are currently our only significant source of revenue. In addition to the observed declines in revenue, we may see decreases in profitability associated with decreasing economies-of-scale related to production, distribution and marketing of the product. If Roche and Trimeris cannot maintain the same levels of profitability for FUZEON our business could be materially harmed. We face intense competition in our efforts to increase sales of FUZEON as a commercially successful drug. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We are engaged in the HIV treatment sector of the biopharmaceutical industry which is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. We expect that new developments by other companies and academic institutions in the areas of HIV treatment will continue at a rapid pace. FUZEON competes with numerous existing therapies, as well as a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and will become available in the future for the treatment of HIV. For example: • Approximately 30 anti-HIV drugs are currently approved in the United States for the treatment of HIV, including drugs produced by GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead, Merck, Roche, Pfizer, Tibotec and Abbott Laboratories. Of the currently-approved drugs, only FUZEON is a viral fusion inhibitor. • In 2007, Merck launched the sale of a first-in-class oral agent known as Isentress®. Isentress is the first of a new class of drugs for the treatment of HIV known as integrase inhibitors. This drug appears to be potent, well-tolerated and has shown rapid, significant adoption by physicians and patients. • We believe that other companies may be currently engaged in research efforts to develop viral fusion inhibitors. To our knowledge, none of these potentially competing drug candidates have entered human clinical trials. We expect to face intense and increasing competition in the future as these new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. We cannot assure you that existing or new drugs for the treatment of HIV developed by our competitors will not be more effective, less expensive or more effectively marketed and sold than FUZEON or any other drug treatment that we may develop. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we do. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the value of their inventions for the treatment of HIV and are more actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. If FUZEON does not maintain or increase its market acceptance, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of FUZEON. FUZEON is the only drug candidate for which we have obtained FDA approval. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues and profits, if any, will depend entirely on the successful commercialization of FUZEON. In light of our restructuring, commercialization of FUZEON will rely primarily on the support of Roche, and Roche’s ability to manufacture commercial quantities of FUZEON on a cost-effective basis with the requisite quality, and Roche’s ability to successfully market FUZEON throughout the world. FUZEON is delivered via a twice daily dosing by injection under the skin. All of the other currently approved drug treatments for HIV are delivered orally. Patients and physicians may not readily accept daily injections of an 16 Table of Contents anti-HIV drug treatment, which would limit such a drug’s acceptance in the market and therefore its delivery method may limit the use of FUZEON compared to other competing drugs. Moreover, because peptides are expensive to manufacture, the price of FUZEON is higher than the prices of currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments. The wholesale acquisition cost, or WAC, of one year’s supply of FUZEON in the United States is approximately $29,730. This price is significantly higher than any of the other approved anti-HIV drugs. Furthermore, the indication approved by the FDA is for the use of FUZEON in combination with other anti-HIV drugs, and is more restrictive than the indication for other approved anti-HIV drugs. Physicians may not readily prescribe FUZEON due to cost-benefit considerations when compared with other anti-HIV drug treatments. Higher prices could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for our drugs from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on Roche to manufacture, market and distribute FUZEON throughout the world in countries where regulatory approval has been received. If Roche fails to market FUZEON adequately, we do not have the ability under our Development and License Agreement to establish our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not control the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche’s Boulder facility where FUZEON is manufactured and we cannot ensure that significant costs associated with scheduling decisions will not be incurred. Roche manufactures FUZEON bulk drug substance at its facility in Boulder, Colorado. Roche coordinates the manufacture of FUZEON with the balance of its manufacturing efforts. We do not have input into the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche’s Boulder facility and Roche’s decisions in this area may result in significant additional cost and expense relating to the manufacture of FUZEON. We have been named as defendants in a lawsuit in which Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. has alleged infringement of a patent in connection with the manufacture and sale of FUZEON. If we cannot resolve this lawsuit on favorable terms and at a reasonable expense, our business may be materially harmed. In November 2007, we were informed that we, along with Roche, had been named as a defendant in a patent infringement suit by Novartis related to the manufacture and sale of FUZEON (see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”). In connection with its suit, Novartis is seeking money damages, attorneys’ fees and injunctive relief which, if successful, would prevent Roche and us from manufacturing and selling FUZEON. The sale of FUZEON is currently our only source of revenue. In order to remain profitable we will need to maintain arrangements with third parties for the sale, marketing and distribution of FUZEON or expend significant resources to develop these capabilities. We currently have insufficient internal resources to support and implement worldwide sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals. We currently rely on Roche for the sales, marketing and distribution of FUZEON, in accordance with the marketing terms contained in our Development and License Agreement with Roche. Roche may terminate this agreement at any time with advance notice. If Roche fails to adequately market FUZEON, we do not have the ability under our Development and License Agreement to establish our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. If Roche ceases to market FUZEON and we were unable to reach agreement with one or more other marketing partners, we would be required to develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to establish cost-effective sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on acceptable terms on a timely basis, if at all. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. Our agreement with Roche as to sales, marketing and distribution gives Roche, and any sales, marketing or distribution arrangements we establish with other parties may give those parties, significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our drugs, including: • market identification; • marketing methods; 17 Table of Contents • pricing; • drug positioning; • composition of sales force; and • promotional activities. We may not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that Roche or any third party may devote to FUZEON. If sufficient amounts of FUZEON, cannot be manufactured on a cost-effective basis, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Peptide-based therapeutics are made from long chains of molecular building blocks called amino acids. FUZEON is a large peptide composed of a precise 36-amino acid sequence. Large peptides are difficult and expensive to manufacture because the process of creating commercial quantities of a large peptide is lengthy and complicated. We and Roche have selected Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado to manufacture commercial quantities of the bulk drug substance of FUZEON. We and Roche have selected one of Roche’s manufacturing facilities to produce the finished drug product from such bulk drug substance through a process involving lyophilization, or freeze-drying. The process Roche is currently using to manufacture FUZEON bulk drug substance requires approximately five months to complete and is extremely complicated, requiring over 100 separate, precisely controlled chemical reactions. Roche is currently manufacturing FUZEON bulk drug substance on a commercial scale, and producing the finished drug product on a commercial scale. However, as a result of this complex manufacturing process, Roche may encounter unexpected difficulties or expense in manufacturing FUZEON in the future. In addition, if sales of FUZEON do not increase, Roche could be forced to scale back manufacturing at the Boulder facility to levels that are less than optimal. Diminished sales of FUZEON will not allow us to achieve the economies of scale that keep our costs of goods low. Any increase in costs of goods would, in turn, decrease our gross margin and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. HIV is likely to develop resistance to FUZEON and our drug candidate TRI-1144, which could adversely affect demand for FUZEON or our drug candidate TRI-1144 and harm our competitive position. HIV is prone to genetic mutations that can produce viral strains resistant to particular drug treatments. HIV has developed resistance, in varying degrees, to each of the currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments, including FUZEON. As a result, combination therapy, or the prescribed use of three or more anti-HIV drugs, has become the preferred method of treatment for HIV-infected patients, because in combination these drugs may prove effective against strains of HIV that have become resistant to one or more drugs in the combination. In the clinical trials we have conducted to date, HIV has demonstrated the ability to develop resistance to FUZEON, as it has with respect to all other currently-marketed anti-HIV drugs. If HIV, in a wide patient population, in a short time period, develops resistance to FUZEON or our other drug candidate when used in combination therapy, it would adversely affect demand for FUZEON or our possible drug candidate TRI-1144 and harm our competitive position. Our business is based on a novel technology called fusion inhibition, and unexpected side effects or other characteristics of this technology may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval and/or commercialization of our drug candidate TRI-1144. The technology platform underlying our drug development program is novel because it was designed to discover drug candidates that treat viral infection by preventing the virus from fusing to and entering host cells that viruses use to reproduce themselves. Historically, anti-HIV therapy has primarily involved the inhibition of specific viral enzymes that are necessary for HIV to replicate. We are not aware of any other approved anti-HIV pharmaceutical products that target the inhibition of viral fusion. As a result, existing preclinical and clinical data on the safety and efficacy of this technology are somewhat limited. Although the most common adverse side effect reported with respect to FUZEON to 18 Table of Contents date has been mild to moderate local skin irritations at the site of injection, we may discover other unacceptable side effects of our drugs including side effects that may only become apparent after long-term exposure. We may also encounter technological challenges relating to these technologies and applications in our research and development programs that we may not be able to resolve. Any such unexpected side effects or technological challenges may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval and/or commercialization of our drug candidate TRI-1144. In order to move forward with the development and commercialization of TRI-1144 we would need to partner with a company that has the requisite expertise and capabilities related to the development, manufacturing, sale, marketing and distribution of drugs. We currently have insufficient internal resources to support and implement worldwide development, sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals. Following a successful Phase I clinical trial for TRI-1144, should we decide to move forward with the development and commercialization of TRI-1144, we may not be able to establish cost-effective development, sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on acceptable terms on a timely basis, if at all. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. We currently do not have any plans to develop and commercialize TRI-1144 beyond the Phase I single ascending dose trial completed in 2008. If we cannot maintain arrangements with third parties for the manufacturing of FUZEON we will not remain profitable. We do not have any manufacturing experience, nor do we have any manufacturing facilities. We and Roche have selected Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado to manufacture commercial quantities of the bulk drug substance of FUZEON. We and Roche have selected one of Roche’s manufacturing facilities to produce the finished drug product from such bulk drug substance through a process involving lyophilization, or freeze-drying. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Moreover, under our agreement with Roche, we are required to reimburse a portion of the expenses incurred by Roche in connection with its manufacture of FUZEON. Third-party manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA regulations, production costs, and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Our third-party manufacturers, including Roche, may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce and market FUZEON. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance of FUZEON on a commercial scale is extremely limited. In addition, only a limited number of third party manufacturers have the capability to produce a finished drug product on a commercial scale through a process involving lyophilization. Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado is the only facility manufacturing FUZEON bulk drug substance. In the event the intended manufacturing plan generates insufficient supplies of FUZEON, or the Boulder facility ceases operation for any reason, we do not have an alternate manufacturing plan in place at this time and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. We do not have insurance to cover any shortages or other problems in the manufacturing of FUZEON. If our third-party manufacturers, including Roche, fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished drug product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities at a substantially equivalent cost and on a timely basis, our ability to deliver FUZEON could be materially and adversely affected. Dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of FUZEON would harm our ability to deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If Roche or our manufacturing partners do not maintain good manufacturing practices, it could negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize FUZEON. The FDA and other regulatory authorities must approve the facilities that will be used to manufacture commercial quantities of any drug candidates before commencement of commercial sales. In addition, these authorities require that our products be manufactured according to good manufacturing practice regulations. The failure by us, Roche or other 19 Table of Contents third-party manufacturers to maintain current good manufacturing practices compliance and/or our failure to increase our manufacturing processes as needed to meet demand for our drugs could lead to refusal by the FDA to approve marketing applications. Failure in either respect could also be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals previously granted and for other regulatory action. In addition, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process with respect to FUZEON, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or location or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials we have conducted. If we are unable to demonstrate this equivalence, we will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply or use the modified process. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence, and our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited exclusive protection and do not protect against infringement. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our assets and business could be materially harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our collaborators and licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights for our drugs and technologies. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the biotechnology field in which we operate is still evolving and involves a great deal of uncertainty. Although we own or exclusively license approximately 43 issued United States patents, and numerous pending United States patent applications, corresponding foreign patents and patent applications, including issued patents and patent applications relating to FUZEON, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure how much protection, if any, our patents will provide if we attempt to enforce them and/or if the patents are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. In addition, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents can be substantial. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, third parties may be able to use our patented technologies without paying licensing fees or royalties to us. Further, we cannot assure that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Because U.S. patent applications may be maintained in secrecy until a patent issues or is otherwise published, we cannot assure that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications. Moreover, we cannot assure that we were the first to invent the technology, which, under U.S. patent law, is a prerequisite to obtaining patent coverage. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application on the technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, i.e., which party was the first to invent. The costs of these proceedings can be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims. Such proceedings are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or enforceable or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that its technology is not covered by our patents. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Recently, several generic drug-makers in countries such as India have offered to sell HIV drugs currently protected under United States patents to patients in Africa at prices significantly below those offered by the drugs’ patent holders in other countries. There is a risk that these drugs produced by the generic drug-makers could be illegally made or imported into the United States and other countries at prices below those charged by the drugs’ patent holders. If any of these actions occur with respect to our drugs, it could limit the amount we could charge for our drugs. In addition to our patented technology, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our 20 Table of Contents technology. We require each of our employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting or collaborative relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and market price of our stock. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may materially harm our business or prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidate TRI-1144. Other companies, universities and research institutions conduct research and development efforts in market segments, including viral fusion inhibition and the treatment of HIV infection, where we and our collaborators focus research and development activities. In addition to the recent suit by Novartis (see above), we cannot assure you that other third parties will not assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our collaborators with respect to technologies used in FUZEON or our drug candidate TRI-1144. Any additional claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of third party patents may cause us to incur additional significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our drug development efforts our other business operations. As a result of a patent infringement suit brought against us, we may have to cease or delay development activities, unless that party is willing to grant us rights to use its intellectual property. Thus we may have to obtain licenses from other parties before we could continue using, manufacturing, marketing or selling our potential drugs. Those licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may not be able to market our potential drugs at all or we may encounter significant delays in drug development while we redesign potentially infringing drugs or methods. Uncertainties relating to third-party reimbursement and health care reform measures could limit the amount we will be able to charge for our drugs and adversely affect our results of operations. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription drugs depend, in part, on the consumer’s ability to obtain reimbursement for the cost of the drugs from third-party payors, such as private and government insurance programs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services in an effort to promote cost containment measures and alternative health care delivery systems. Because of the high cost of the treatment of HIV, many state legislatures are also reassessing reimbursement policies for this therapy. If third-party payor reimbursements for FUZEON or our other drug candidate TRI-1144 that we commercialize are not available or are not available at a level that will allow us or our current or future collaborative partners to sell these drugs on a competitive basis, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, emphasis in the United States on the reduction of the overall costs of health care through managed care has increased and will continue to increase the pressure to reduce the prices of pharmaceutical products. The announcement and/or adoption of these types of proposals or efforts could also materially and adversely affect our business, because the amount of revenue that we may potentially be able to generate in the future for FUZEON or our other drug candidate could affect an investor’s decision to invest in us, the amount of funds we decide to spend now on our development and clinical trial efforts, and/or our decision to seek regulatory approval for our drug candidate TRI-1144. The wholesale acquisition cost of a one year supply of FUZEON in the United States is approximately $29,730. A high drug price could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for our drugs from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Roche has made significant progress in achieving reimbursement from the various payors in the United States. Currently FUZEON is covered by Medicaid in all 50 states. In addition, all of the 50 state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs, or ADAPs, and a majority of private insurers provide some amount of access to FUZEON. However there 21 Table of Contents are reimbursement challenges remaining. Some of the payors require patients to meet minimum medical requirements, such as CD4 cell levels, to receive reimbursement. Other payors limit the number of patients that they will provide reimbursement for FUZEON, and other payors may require co-payments by the patient in order to receive reimbursement for FUZEON that are significantly higher than those required for other anti-HIV drugs. Several major pharmaceutical companies have offered to sell their anti-HIV drugs at or below cost to certain countries in Africa, which could adversely affect the reimbursement climate, and the prices that may be charged, for HIV medications in the United States and the rest of the world. Third-party payors could exert pressure for price reductions in the United States and the rest of the world based on these offers to Africa. This price pressure could limit the amount that we would be able to charge for our drugs. If the testing or use of FUZEON or our drug candidate—TRI-1144 harms people, we could face costly and damaging product liability claims far in excess of our liability and indemnification coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products, such as undesirable side effects or injury during clinical trials or therapeutic use. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of drugs that we or our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these drugs by us or our potential or current collaborators may expose us to liability risks relating to these drugs. We have obtained an advanced medical technology policy which includes limited product liability insurance coverage for our marketed product and clinical trials in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential liabilities. Furthermore, our collaborators or licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any product liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage or indemnification payments that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. If our operating results for a particular period deviate from the levels expected by securities analysts and investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate over time, due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: • the market acceptance and sales levels for FUZEON; • the successful commercialization of FUZEON by Roche; • the status and progress of our collaborative agreement with Roche; • the status of our research and development activities; • the timing of regulatory actions; • our ability to establish manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, either internally or through relationships with third parties; • technological and other changes in the competitive landscape; • changes in our existing or future research and development relationships and strategic alliances; and • the commercial viability of FUZEON or TRI-1144. As a result, we believe that comparing our results of operations for one period against another period is not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on our results of operations in prior periods as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations for a period deviate from the levels expected by securities analysts and investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain the standards for maintaining internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our stock price could be materially harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 has required and will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In future years our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that we would be required to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We rely on our collaborative partner Roche to timely deliver important financial information relating to FUZEON sales and expenses. In the event that this information is inaccurate, incomplete or not timely we will not be able to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. We have entered into a collaboration for the development and commercialization of certain therapeutic peptides for the treatment of HIV with Roche. Through this collaboration, the companies have successfully developed and brought to market the first viral fusion inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, FUZEON. Under our Development and License Agreement, Roche has significant control over the sale and distribution of FUZEON to wholesalers. Roche sets the price of FUZEON to wholesalers, along with any rebates and incentives, and the terms of any returns. Roche records all sales of FUZEON. As such, Roche has exclusive control over the flow of important information relating to the sale of FUZEON that we require in order to timely and accurately report in our SEC filings. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Roche endeavors to provide us with timely and accurate financial data related to the sale of FUZEON so that we may meet our reporting requirements under federal securities laws. In the event that Roche fails to provide us with timely and accurate information, we may incur significant liability with respect to the federal securities laws, our disclosure controls and procedures under Sarbanes-Oxley and possibly be forced to restate our financial statements, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter requires us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which obligates us to make substantial payments and to incur significant insurance-related expenses. Our charter requires that we indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. This could require us, with some legally prescribed exceptions, to indemnify our directors and officers against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement of an action, suit or proceeding brought against any of them by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of Trimeris. In addition, expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending any such action, suit or proceeding must be paid by us in advance of the final disposition of that action, suit or proceeding if we receive an undertaking by the director or officer to repay us if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. In furtherance of these obligations, we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance in the amount of $20 million. Our policies expire in March of 2011. For future renewals, if we are able to retain coverage, we may be required to pay a higher premium for our directors’ and officers’ insurance than in the past and/or the amount of our insurance coverage may be decreased. 23 Table of Contents The NASDAQ Global Market may delist our securities because we did not hold an annual stockholders’ meeting in 2009, which could adversely affect the trading market for our securities. On January 5, 2010, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department stating that our common stock is subject to delisting because we failed to hold a required annual stockholders’ meeting by December 31, 2009, the end of our fiscal year (the “Notification Letter”). The Notification Letter stated that unless we requested an appeal of this determination, trading of our common stock would be suspended at the opening of business on January 14, 2010, and a Form 25-NSE would be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, we requested a hearing with the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) to review the determination contained in the Notification Letter, which stayed the suspension of the our common stock and the filing of the Form 25-NSE pending the Panel’s decision. Company representatives met with the Panel on February 18, 2010 to request an extension of time to meet the NASDAQ listing requirements and propose a plan of action to regain compliance. The Panel informed us in a written determination dated March 12, 2010 that the Panel has determined to grant our request to remain listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market subject to the condition that we hold our annual stockholders’ meeting on or before April 30, 2010. If we are unable to comply with this deadline, the Panel may issue a final delisting determination and suspend trading of our shares on the second business day after the date of the delisting determination. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, the trading market for our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Available Information We maintain a website on the World Wide Web at www.trimeris.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 