D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition in each of the segments in which we operate and our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to compete successfully. We face intense competition in each of the segments in which we operate. In the hardware-based software licensing authentication token, or SLAT, market, our software digital rights management, or DRM, solutions compete with products sold by SafeNet Inc. Our competitors in the authentication market are RSA Security Inc., which holds a dominant position in the one-time passwords, or OTP market, and SafeNet, which manufactures a USB-based authentication product. We also compete with smart card manufacturers. Our primary competitor in the content security market for gateway solutions is Trend Micro Inc., which holds a dominant market position. In addition, the overall content security market is characterized by a number of large companies, such as Symantec Corporation, McAfee, Inc. and Trend Micro, which in 2006 together accounted for over 60% of global revenues in this market as well as a large number of smaller companies. While a substantial part of the products marketed by these companies provide primarily desktop or network solutions and not the gateway solution offered by eSafe, we face competition from some gateway solutions provided by these companies. In addition, some vendors of firewalls offering gateway security products, compete with our eSafe product. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if our competitors succeed in marketing products with superior performance or at lower prices than our products. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues and all of our profits from our software DRM segment. Our results of operations would be materially adversely affected if sales of our software DRM products were to decline. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenues and all of our profits from our software DRM segment, consisting entirely of sales of our HASP line of products. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues and profits from this segment for the foreseeable future. Since our software DRM products target the software industry, sales reflect trends in the software business cycle. Demand for our software DRM products is driven, to some extent, by end-user demand for software applications. If software vendors experience deteriorating sales due to an economic downturn, demand for our software DRM products could decline. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 3 Sales of our products at low gross margins may adversely affect our results of operations. In order to penetrate emerging markets, from time to time we conclude transactions at low gross margins. In 2006, gross margin from enterprise security decreased to 62.4%, compared to 71.8% in 2005. The decrease in gross margin from enterprise security was mainly attributable to several transactions made in the Asia-Pacific region that were conducted at low gross margins in order to increase our market share in the region. If we continue to enter into transactions at low gross margins, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on sole source suppliers for a number of key components of our products and if we need to seek alternate suppliers our results of operations could be adversely affected. We purchase certain key components for each of our hardware-based products from sole source suppliers. In particular, we obtain from sole source suppliers the application specific integrated circuits and microcontrollers included in our HASP products, and the microcontroller and the smart card, including its operating system, for our eToken products. In addition, we license the anti-spam and web filtering functions incorporated in eSafe and receive services related to these functions from a third party pursuant to a license agreement that expires on December 31, 2007 but automatically renews for unlimited successive one-year periods subject to either party’s request to terminate at the end of each year. We would need to seek an alternative licensor and service provider for these functions if this third party ceases to provide these services or decides not to extend the license. If any of our suppliers become unable to or refuses to manufacture these components or if we experience delays in delivery of, or shortages in, these components, which has happened from time to time, it could interrupt and delay the manufacture of our products. In the event of a disruption in supply, we cannot assure you that our inventory would be sufficient to enable us to continue manufacturing during the time that it would take to modify the design and integrate substitute components. Any such disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. Changing preferences and new industry initiatives may render our products obsolete. We cannot assure you that software publishers will continue to prefer to protect their software through hardware-based solutions over software-based solutions. A change in preference towards software-based solutions could materially adversely affect the sales of our HASP HL token-based products, which currently represent approximately 68% of our total revenues. An emerging trend in the software industry is providing Software as a Service (SaaS). This concept is based on hosting the software application in a server and providing its functionality as a centralized service, combined with a strong underlying business model and connectivity to the customer’s back-office. SaaS does not sell software the traditional way, by burning software onto CD’s for sale. Consequently, SaaS does not require piracy protection and licensing the way traditional software products do. It requires instead strong protection of the server against intruders, and higher level of authentication of the user. These protections are not provided by our existing software DRM solutions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify HASP HL to meet the needs of SaaS. If SaaS becomes a significant trend in the software industry it may adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, a number of participants in the computer industry have commenced an initiative to implement “trusted computing” functions which may replicate some of the features of our software DRM products. In particular, Microsoft Corporation has announced the development of its “Next-Generation Secure Computing Base” architecture which, among other things, is intended to contain software DRM functionality. In addition, a consortium of companies in the computer industry, including Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation, Intel Corporation, Microsoft, Sony Corporation and Sun Microsystems, Inc. have formed the Trusted Computing Group to implement trusted computing. The Trusted Computing Group’s principal goal is the development of an additional chip that enhances security of computers. Software developers have started to add security features to new versions of their software that are designed to limit intrusions by unauthorized users or viruses and spyware via the Internet. Microsoft has announced an anti-virus service geared towards consumers as well as a new strategy for anti-virus protection for businesses. In addition the new version of Windows (Vista) has many security features that are designed to minimize penetration of malicious code. Stronger security in future Microsoft platforms may significantly minimize the vulnerabilities 4 through which virus and vandal penetration is possible. This, in turn, might lower the need to implement anti-virus and content security solutions such as eSafe. As the incorporation of such features in future versions of operating systems and software make these systems less susceptible to outside penetration, our eSafe product may be rendered obsolete or unmarketable. We may not be successful in keeping pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and changes in end-user requirements. Hackers constantly improve their methods of stealing end-user technology, software and identities, and new viruses and unwanted content are constantly emerging. In addition, new software operating systems, network systems or industry standards could emerge. Emerging trends in these systems and standards currently include applications distributed over the Internet and the use of a web browser to access client-server systems. Our existing products might be incompatible with some or all of such standards. Therefore, our future success depends upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce products that address these new requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new or enhanced products in a timely manner. Our failure to keep pace with these changes could adversely affect our results of operations. A key element of our growth strategy is increasing sales of our eToken product line. A key element of our growth strategy is increasing sales of our eToken product line worldwide, which currently represents a small portion of our revenues. Much of this growth will depend on widespread market acceptance of USB-based authentication devices over competing authentication technologies, such as OTP and smart cards. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to accept our eToken products as superior to these existing technologies. If this market does not grow as projected, or if our marketing and selling efforts do not succeed, and eToken adoption rates are lower than we project, we may not achieve our growth targets, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent others from successfully claiming that we infringed their proprietary rights. The software protection and Internet security industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement and the violation of other intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors have extensive patent portfolios with broad claims. In addition, individuals and organizations that may not compete with us directly may also have patents with broad claims. As the number of competitors in the market grows and the functionality of our products increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us increases. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to be published, there may be a patent application now pending of which we are unaware, which will cause us to be infringing when issued in the future. To address any patent infringement or other intellectual property claims, we may have to redesign our products to avoid infringement or enter into royalty or licensing agreements on disadvantageous commercial terms. We may also be unable to successfully redesign our products or obtain a necessary license. These outcomes could result in us having to stop the sale, or result in increased costs, of some of our products, and could harm our reputation. In the past, we have been subject to claims that resulted in us paying amounts in settlements or obtaining licenses to use intellectual property rights as a result of third-party claims against us. In 2004, we were named as defendant in a U.S. patent infringement complaint alleging that certain of our products infringed a now-expired patent. In 2005, we reached a settlement with respect to this claim. In addition, from time to time, we have received notices from third parties offering to license to us certain aspects of their technology. Any infringement or other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, which are brought against us could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete greatly depends on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality clauses in our 5 agreements to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will successfully protect our technology because: • to license our products, we rely on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the customer and, therefore, we may not be able to enforce our proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions; • some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States; • if a competitor were to infringe our proprietary rights, enforcing our rights may be time-consuming and costly, diverting both our management’s attention and our resources, and could result in challenges to the validity of our rights; • measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection because monitoring unauthorized uses of trade secrets and confidential information is difficult and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach of our agreements; • unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products and develop similar software or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary; and • our competitors may be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our intellectual property rights. We also have a number of patents and certain patent applications pending. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or, that if patents are issued, the patents will be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. In the event that these or any other patent applications are published but not issued, they will become publicly available and proprietary information will become available to others. In addition, we do not know whether any issued patents will be upheld as valid, proven enforceable against alleged infringers or that they will prevent the development of competitive products. Sales of products that contain encryption technologies are subject to export and other restrictions, and our failure to comply with applicable government regulations could subject us to sanctions and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Our eToken and HASP product lines contain encryption technologies which require a permit from the Israeli government for their development and export. We have obtained a general permit for our HASP HL product which does not require renewals, and we have a special permit to export eToken which requires annual renewal. Any failure to renew this permit on a timely basis or at all would prevent us from exporting eToken for sale outside of Israel. The sale of eToken in some countries may require special approval by the Israeli government, per sale, and there can be no guarantee that the Israeli government will provide such approval. In addition, we may need to apply for additional permits in the future to export products currently under development that include encryption technologies. There can be no guarantee that the Israeli government will grant such permits. Furthermore, the laws or regulations governing the export of encryption technologies may change and we may be required to comply with more stringent requirements. We also conduct some of our research and development activities in Germany and may be subject to regulations regarding export of technologies. In addition, the import and sale of products containing encryption technologies are subject to various regulations in the countries in which we sell our products. Our independent distributors are contractually responsible for compliance with any governmental regulations in countries in which they sell our products, and we rely upon them to fully comply with these regulations. We are responsible for compliance with governmental regulations in countries or regions in which we make direct sales of our products. We have not conducted a survey of applicable governmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which we make direct sales, and we have not conducted an audit of our independent distributors to determine their compliance with applicable governmental regulations. Therefore, our subsidiaries and independent distributors may be noncompliant with the laws and regulations of these jurisdictions and could face fines, penalties or other sanctions, including limitations on their ability to sell our products. We rely on independent distributors for a portion of our revenues, and we intend to enter into additional distribution arrangements in the future, which may increase this reliance. We market and sell our software DRM products through independent distributors in all of the countries in which we do not have subsidiaries, and we market and sell our eSafe and eToken product lines generally through indirect sales channels, which include independent distributors. In 2006, 40% of our revenues were generated from 6 sales to independent distributors. Under our agreements with independent distributors, each distributor is granted a non-exclusive right in each particular country or region to market our products for an initial term of one year, subject to meeting minimum sales targets. Our success in generating sales in countries or regions where we have engaged independent distributors depends in part on their efforts. We cannot assure you that our distributors will devote sufficient resources to market and support our products effectively or that they will meet minimum sales targets. In the future, we intend to sign additional distribution agreements, which may make us more dependent on our distributors. In addition, if we decide to terminate a relationship with an independent distributor, this could disrupt our relationships with customers served by the terminated distributor. Our strategy of establishing original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, relationships for sales of our enterprise security product lines may not succeed and may result in difficulties in distinguishing our brand. A key element of our growth strategy in our enterprise security segment is to establish OEM relationships with large technology vendors with the aim of encouraging them to incorporate our eToken and eSafe product lines into their products. To date, we have entered into two such relationships with respect to eToken. We believe that the success of our enterprise security segment is dependent, in part, on the establishment of additional OEM relationships in the future. The establishment of OEM relationships is a time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable process, and often involves complex issues relating to the adaptation of our products. Furthermore, OEM relationships may not contain any minimum purchase requirements and there can be no guarantee that any relationship that we establish will result in significant sales. In addition, because OEMs purchase products to be incorporated into their own products, we may lose the ability to brand our products effectively and interact directly with end-users of our products. This may make it easier for OEMs to replace our products with those of our competitors or with products that the OEM partner has developed on its own. Should this occur, we could experience pressure to reduce our prices, or risk losing these relationships. Either of these would adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our reported results of operations. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and the majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollar, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses in certain locations are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar including, in particular, the euro. In periods when the U.S. dollar strengthens against these other currencies, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, fluctuations in currencies may result in valuation adjustments in our assets and liabilities which could affect our reported results of operations. Maintenance and upgrades of our products may disrupt our customers’ operations and may provide them with an opportunity to switch to competing products. We need to upgrade and improve our products periodically. When we upgrade or deploy new versions of our products, we require the cooperation of our existing customers. If our periodic upgrades cause complications or disruptions, we may lose revenues and we may also be the subject of negative publicity that may harm our reputation. In addition, the upgrade process creates a decision point for our customers to consider and possibly switch to alternative products. Our products may contain undetected errors which could disrupt our customers’ critical business functions. Some of our products could contain errors or defects. Our eSafe product resides on the customer’s gateway, a critical juncture that allows access to the Internet. A failure of our eSafe product can temporarily cause the disruption of critical business functions, including the ability to access the Internet or communicate by electronic mail during an outage. Such a failure of eSafe or our other products could cause significant financial losses and disruption to our customers. Our end-user license agreements, distribution agreements and reseller agreements contain limitation of liabilities clauses which may not be enforceable for indirect or incidental damages arising from the use of our products. This could expose us to greater financial risk and adversely affect our results of operations. Any defects in our existing or new products could result in a loss of revenues and claims against us, a diversion of our resources, damage to our reputation or increased service and other costs. 7 Some of our products may cause conflicts and failures in our customers’ systems. Some models of our HASP products operate through the parallel port of a user’s computer. We believe that over half of our installed base of HASP keys use this technology. The design of the parallel port-based HASP keys employs technologies that may not function properly when used in conjunction with certain printers or other devices that share the parallel port. Also, future changes in design by printer and device manufacturers could result in HASP keys that were installed and worked properly in the past no longer operating effectively. While we do not warrant the full compatibility of the parallel port-based HASP keys with all parallel port devices, our reputation could be harmed by widespread failures of these products. Our software DRM products may leave customers vulnerable to piracy, which could seriously harm our business. Our software DRM products do not provide absolute protection against piracy. We, together with our customers, continuously face challenges from computer hackers, who attempt to neutralize the protection our products provide in order to enable unlicensed copying of our customers’ software. In recent years, we have faced increasing attacks by hackers who have developed methods to circumvent the protection provided by our software DRM products. Such methods are often publicized over the Internet, making them readily available to those who wish to make unlicensed copies of our customers’ software. We cannot guarantee that hackers will not continue to develop methods to contravene the protection provided by our products. Failure to provide effective software protection solutions could seriously harm our business. Our content security products may fail to protect our customers’ networks from virus attacks and vandalism, which could seriously harm our business. Our content security products do not provide absolute protection against viruses and vandalism. We, together with our customers, continuously face challenges from hackers, who attempt to neutralize the protection that our products provide in order to penetrate and harm our customers’ networks. Failure to provide effective content security solutions could seriously harm our business. Acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other adverse consequences. During the last decade, we have completed a number of acquisitions of businesses and product lines. The process of integrating any acquired business into our own business and operations is challenging and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas in which we may face difficulties include: • diversion of our management’s time after consummation of the acquisition from the ongoing development of our businesses, and the release of future products and services; • a decline in employee morale and retention issues, both at our company and at the acquired company, resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; and • integration of new product lines, accounting, management and internal controls. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. In addition, future acquisitions could require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive. We must comply with new European governmental regulations setting environmental standards. Our activities in Europe require that we comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. Directive 2002/95/ec of the European Parliament on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, known as the RoHS Directive, became effective on July 1, 2006 and requires that certain of our products be modified to meet this regulation. If we fail to achieve compliance, we may be restricted from selling our products in the European Union and this could adversely affect our results of operations. European Directive 2002/96/EC on waste, electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive, makes manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment 8 financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The WEEE Directive became effective on August 13, 2005. We may incur financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment or disposal of products covered under the WEEE Directive. Because the EU member states have not fully implemented the WEEE Directive, the nature and extent of the costs to comply and fees or penalties associated with noncompliance are unknown at this time. Costs to comply with the WEEE Directive and similar future legislation, if applicable, may also include legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We may also be required to take additional reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile. Our ordinary shares have been subject to and will continue to be subject to a great deal of volatility. For example, during 2006, the price of our ordinary shares on The Nasdaq Global Market fluctuated between $13.72 and $23.57 per share. We cannot predict the fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. The broader market for technology stocks and, in particular, those of companies based in Israel has also been subject to significant price fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Such volatility in relation to our ordinary shares may also affect our ability to raise additional equity financing in the future. Our chairman and chief executive officer, Jacob (Yanki) Margalit, and our director, Dany Margalit, have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder and board approval. Our chairman and chief executive officer, Jacob (Yanki) Margalit, and our director, Dany Margalit, collectively own or control 18.34% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Messrs. Margalit are brothers, and both sit on our board of directors which comprises a total of five members. Accordingly, they have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring director or shareholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant corporate transaction. These shareholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations and volatility. Our ordinary shares are traded on The Nasdaq Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on The Nasdaq Global Market and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. In addition, due to the smaller size of the local capital markets, we may receive more media coverage in Israel and Israeli investors may react to this coverage more quickly than investors elsewhere. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Our results of operations are inherently difficult to project and we may fail to meet our guidance or analysts’ projections, which may adversely affect our share price. We deliver our products promptly following the receipt of customer orders and, therefore, we do not have a significant backlog. In addition, a large proportion of our sales are concentrated at the end of each quarter. These factors make it difficult to project our quarterly and annual results of operations. At the beginning of 2007, we released financial guidance to the public with respect to the forthcoming year. We intend to continue to release to the public at the beginning of each year an annual financial guidance. Should our actual results of operations fall short of our guidance or analysts’ estimates, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. 9 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Security, political and economic instability in Israel may harm our business. Our corporate headquarters, manufacturing facilities and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect our operations. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. During July and August 2006, major hostilities have broken out between Israel and both Palestinian factions in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon, leading to an escalation of the conflict in the area. Major towns and settlements in northern Israel, including Haifa, Naharia, Safed and Karmiel were under attacks from Hezbollah missiles. Such conflicts, as well as the internal military conflicts between the Hamas and Fatah in the Gaza Strip and some parts of the West Bank, may affect Israel’s security, foreign relations and the stability of the region. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. For example, as many of our male employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty typically until 45 years of age and in some cases up to 54 years of age, any major escalation in hostilities in the region could result in a portion of our employees being required to perform military duty for an extended period of time. In 2005, Israel experienced unionized general strikes in connection with economic reforms being passed into legislation. In addition, during July and August 2006, Haifa Port was closed as a result of the escalation of the military conflict in northern Israel. Due to the fact that our products are manufactured in Israel and, for the most part, sold to customers outside of Israel, a prolonged general strike or a disruption of any of the Israeli ports for an extended period of time, would affect our ability to deliver our products to our non-Israeli customers. We cannot guarantee that a prolonged general strike in Israel or a disruption of any of the Israeli ports as a result of a military conflict, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We receive tax benefits that may be reduced or eliminated in the future. Several of our expansion programs in Israel have been granted approved and privileged enterprise status. We are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959. The availability of these tax benefits is subject to certain requirements, including making specified investments in property and equipment, and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we do not meet these requirements in the future, the tax benefits may be cancelled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received, plus interest and penalties thereon. We cannot assure you that the tax benefits that our current approved and privileged enterprise programs receive will be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase. It may be difficult and costly to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to: • effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors who are nonresidents of the United States; • enforce court judgments obtained in the United States including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors which are nonresidents of the United States, in the United States or Israel; and 10 • bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. For additional information about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see “Item 10.B. Articles of Association—Anti-Takeover Provisions; Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the current rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, we are required to comply with the management assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 and with the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management assessment and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. We will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by Nasdaq. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our share price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may not have access to the capital markets, and our share price may be adversely affected. 11 