ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. If Fuzeon does not maintain or increase its market acceptance, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of Fuzeon. Fuzeon is the only drug candidate for which we have obtained FDA approval. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues and profits, if any, will depend entirely on the successful commercialization of Fuzeon. Commercialization of Fuzeon will require the continued support of Roche and Roche’s ability to manufacture commercial quantities of Fuzeon on a cost-effective basis with the requisite quality, and Roche’s ability to successfully market Fuzeon throughout the world. Fuzeon is delivered via a twice daily dosing by injection under the skin. All of the currently approved drug treatments for HIV are delivered orally. Patients and physicians may not readily accept daily injections of an anti-HIV drug treatment, which would limit their acceptance in the market. This delivery method may limit the use of Fuzeon compared to other competing drugs. Moreover, because peptides are expensive to manufacture, the price of Fuzeon is higher than the prices of currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments. The WAC of one year’s supply of Fuzeon in the United States is approximately $22,200. This price is significantly higher than any of the other approved anti-HIV drugs. Furthermore, the indication approved by the FDA is for the use of Fuzeon in combination with other anti-HIV drugs, and is more restrictive than the indication for other approved anti-HIV drugs. Physicians may not readily prescribe Fuzeon due to cost-benefit considerations when compared with other anti-HIV drug treatments. Higher prices could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for our drugs from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on Roche to manufacture, market and distribute Fuzeon throughout the world in countries where regulatory approval has been received. If Roche fails to market Fuzeon adequately, we do not have the ability under our collaboration agreement to establish our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. Roche has significant inventory of both finished product and raw materials on hand, if Fuzeon sales do not increase we could face the risk of significant write-offs. Commercial sales of Fuzeon began in March 2003. In advance of the commercial launch, Roche manufactured large quantities of commercial drug product in order to satisfy an anticipated large pent-up demand for Fuzeon. Since that time, sales levels have not matched the original demand forecasts resulting in larger than anticipated inventories of raw materials, bulk drug substance and finished drug. These raw materials, bulk drug substance and finished drug product lots cannot be used beyond a certain date due to shelf-life expiration. If drug product is not sold before expiration of the shelf-date or if raw materials are not consumed, then Roche may write off these inventories at a significant expense to us. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. We have sustained operating losses since our inception, and these losses may continue. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit since beginning our operations in January 1993 was approximately $378.5 million. We had net losses of approximately $8.1 million in 2005, approximately $40.1 million in 2004, and approximately $65.7 million in 2003. Since inception, we have spent our funds on our drug development 17 Table of Contents efforts relating primarily to the development of Fuzeon and T-1249. If Fuzeon sales levels do not increase beyond their current levels, we expect that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future and that these losses may increase as we continue our research and development, preclinical testing, clinical trial and regulatory approval efforts. Short-term periods of profitability may be observed but may not be sustainable over the near term. For example in the quarter ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized $3.8 million in net income as a result of operations. However, there can be no assurance that we will become profitable on a sustained basis, even if we do achieve increased Fuzeon sales levels. Any additional financing we obtain may result in dilution to our stockholders, restrictions on our operating flexibility or the transfer of particular rights to technologies or drug candidates. If we raise funds by selling equity, equity-like instruments (including offering convertible preferred stock or convertible debt), we may dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership interest in us. Any debt financings may contain restrictive terms that would limit our operating flexibility. Additionally, we may have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners. These partners may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. Any of these forms of financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may require substantial additional capital, which we may not be able to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, we could be required to cut back or stop certain operations if we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding. Our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2005 was $36.9 million, down from $48.4 million at December 31, 2004. Our future capital requirements and level of expenses will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs associated with: • our research and development activities; • our administrative activities including business development, marketing and sales efforts; • clinical trials, and • the consummation of possible future acquisitions of technologies, products or businesses. Our ability to continue investing in future products will depend on our cash position. We have undertaken numerous measures to increase sales and increase operating efficiencies in order to slow our cash burn. While for the fourth quarter of 2005 we were profitable, we can give no assurance that we will in fact operate profitably in the future. If Roche does not meet its contractual obligations to us, our research and development efforts and the regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed or otherwise materially and adversely affected. We have entered into an agreement with Roche to develop and market Fuzeon and T-1249, or a replacement compound, worldwide, manufacture clinical and commercial quantities of these compounds, and help conduct our clinical trials of these compounds. In addition to sharing with us the development expenses and profits for these compounds in North America and paying us royalties on net sales of these compounds outside of those countries, the agreement calls for Trimeris to receive up to $68 million in upfront and milestone payments, of which we have achieved $28.3 million as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we have entered into a research agreement with Roche to discover, develop and commercialize other anti-HIV fusion inhibitor peptides. In February 2006, the joint research plan under the agreement was renewed through December 31, 2006. Our reliance on Roche in connection with joint research activities poses a number of risks, including the following: • Roche has the right to terminate our development and license agreement, including its marketing provisions, and terminate or not renew the research agreement, in each case as a whole or with respect to any particular country or countries, at any time and from time to time in its sole discretion, even though we have a joint management committee consisting of members from Roche and Trimeris that oversees the strategy for our collaboration and research; 18 Table of Contents • Roche may not devote sufficient resources to the research, development or marketing of Fuzeon, or any other drugs that may be developed; • Roche may not devote sufficient resources to manufacture Fuzeon in commercial quantities on a cost-effective basis and with the requisite quality; • disagreements with Roche could lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of Fuzeon or future drug candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; • Roche may choose to devote fewer resources to the research, development and marketing of Fuzeon or our future drug candidates than it does to drugs of its own development, or may choose to compete with us by seeking, on its own or in collaboration with our competitors, alternate means of developing drug therapies for the diseases we have targeted; • Roche has the right to establish or change the market prices of Fuzeon or any other drug candidates covered by the Roche collaboration; • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with Roche; and • Roche may be a party to mergers, acquisitions or other corporate transactions in the future that result in a change in its business strategy relating to our collaboration. If any of the foregoing occurs or if Roche otherwise fails to fulfill any of its obligations to us in accordance with our agreements, our research and development efforts and clinical trials, and the regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed or otherwise materially and adversely affected. We also may rely from time to time on the services of other third parties in connection with our research and development and clinical trial activities, including contract research organizations, manufacturers who produce clinical amounts of our drug candidates, licensors, collaborators and others. The failure of any of these persons to perform their obligations as agreed may also delay and otherwise adversely affect our research and development, clinical trial activities and regulatory approval of our future drug candidates. In order to become profitable we will need to maintain arrangements with third parties for the sale, marketing and distribution of our current and future drug candidates or expend significant resources to develop these capabilities. We currently have insufficient internal resources to support and implement worldwide sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals. We currently rely on Roche for the sales, marketing and distribution of Fuzeon and plan to rely on Roche for these activities in connection with any other potential drug candidates covered by our collaboration with Roche, in accordance with the marketing terms contained in our development and license agreement with Roche. Roche may terminate this agreement at any time with advance notice. If Roche fails to adequately market Fuzeon or our future drug candidates, if approved, we do not have the ability under our collaboration agreement to establish our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. If Roche ceases to market Fuzeon or our future drug candidates by terminating our agreement, and we were unable to reach agreement with one or more other marketing partners, we would be required to develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to establish cost-effective sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on acceptable terms on a timely basis, if at all. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. Our agreement with Roche and any sales, marketing or distribution arrangements we establish with other parties gives Roche, and may give those parties, significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our drugs, including: • market identification; • marketing methods; • pricing; 19 Table of Contents • drug positioning; • composition of sales force; and • promotional activities. We may not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that Roche or any third party may devote to our drug candidates. If sufficient amounts of Fuzeon or any other drugs we attempt to bring to market cannot be manufactured on a cost-effective basis, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Peptide-based therapeutics are made from long chains of molecular building blocks called amino acids. Fuzeon is a large peptide composed of a precise 36-amino acid sequence. Large peptides are difficult and expensive to manufacture because the process of creating commercial quantities of a large peptide is lengthy and complicated. We and Roche have selected Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado to manufacture commercial quantities of the bulk drug substance of Fuzeon. We and Roche have selected one of Roche’s manufacturing facilities to produce the finished drug product from such bulk drug substance through a process involving lyophilization, or freeze-drying. The process Roche is currently using to manufacture Fuzeon bulk drug substance requires approximately five months to complete and is extremely complicated, requiring over 100 separate, precisely controlled chemical reactions. Roche is currently manufacturing Fuzeon bulk drug substance on a commercial scale, and producing the finished drug product on a commercial scale. However, as a result of this complex manufacturing process, Roche may encounter unexpected difficulties or expense in manufacturing Fuzeon in the future. In addition, if sales of Fuzeon do not increase, Roche could be forced to scale back manufacturing at the Boulder facility to levels that are less than optimal. Diminished sales of Fuzeon will not allow us to achieve the economies of scale that keep our costs of goods low. Any increase in costs of goods would, in turn, decrease our gross margin and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. We do not control the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche’s Boulder facility where Fuzeon is manufactured and that we cannot ensure that significant costs associated with scheduling decisions will not be incurred. Roche manufactures Fuzeon bulk drug substance at their facility in Boulder, Colorado. Roche coordinates the manufacture of Fuzeon with the balance of its manufacturing efforts. We do not have input into the manufacturing and production schedule at Roche, Boulder and Roche’s decisions in this area may result in significant additional cost and expense relating to the manufacture of Fuzeon. We are currently in the process of finalizing an amendment to our research agreement with Roche that addresses several significant issues related to the research and development of our next generation drug candidates and we cannot guarantee that these negotiations will lead to a final agreement. We are currently in discussions with Roche to attempt to clarify the responsibility of each of the parties with respect to important rights and obligations under our research collaboration agreement including, issues related to intellectual property, termination and the development of our next generation fusion inhibitors. In the event that a final understanding regarding these items is not reached, we could be exposed to significant financial risk and expense for which we had not previously expected to be responsible. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock. If Roche does not re-new our current research agreement to discover, develop and commercialize novel peptide fusion inhibitors, we may not be able to proceed with the development of our most promising drug candidates. We have entered into an agreement with Roche to discover, develop and commercialize novel peptide fusion inhibitors. This research agreement covers several of our most promising potential drug candidates. Annually, we and 20 Table of Contents Roche adopt a plan that outlines which research activities will be carried out and how costs will be shared under the agreement. However, prior to regulatory approval, either party has the option to decline to participate and share in the development plan of a given drug candidate. If Roche chooses to decline to participate during 2006 or to not re-new the research plan after 2006 when it expires, we may not be able to proceed with the development and/or commercialization of these candidates due to both funding and intellectual property limitations. We may not be able to effectively develop our drug pipeline. The antiviral peptides and small molecules in our research programs will require extensive additional development, testing and investment, as well as regulatory approvals, prior to commercialization. Our product research and development efforts may not be successful. Our drug candidates may not enter preclinical, nonclinical or clinical studies as, or when, anticipated or receive the required regulatory approvals. Moreover, our products, if introduced, may not be commercially successful. While we have made great progress in advancing our two lead peptide candidates into advanced pre-clinical testing, many more levels of testing are required before a commercial product can be realized. The results of preclinical and initial clinical trials of products under development by us are not necessarily predictive of results that will be obtained from large-scale clinical testing. Clinical trials of products under development may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such products or result in a marketable product. Findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical studies could adversely impact the development of our products. In addition, the administration, alone or in combination with other drugs, of any product developed by us may produce undesirable side effects in humans. The failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a therapeutic drug under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product and could have a material adverse effect on us. We face intense competition in our efforts to develop commercially successful drugs in the biopharmaceutical industry. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We are engaged in sectors of the biopharmaceutical industry, including the treatment of HIV, that are intensely competitive and change rapidly. We expect that new developments by other companies and academic institutions in the areas in which we are conducting our research and development will continue at a rapid pace. Fuzeon and our other drug candidates that are successfully developed will compete with numerous existing therapies, as well as a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and will become available in the future for the treatment of HIV. For example: • Approximately 26 anti-HIV drugs are currently approved in the United States for the treatment of HIV, including drugs produced by GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead, Merck, Roche and Abbott Laboratories. Only one of these currently-approved drugs, Fuzeon, is a viral fusion inhibitor. • We believe that other companies may be currently engaged in research efforts to develop viral fusion inhibitors. To our knowledge, none of these potentially competing drug candidates have entered human clinical trials. • Several companies, including Panacos, Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Schering-Plough, Tanox, Inc., Gilead, Merck, Roche, Bristol-Myers Squibb and GlaxoSmithKline, are in early stage human clinical trials with anti-HIV drug candidates that target viral processes different from those targeted by currently approved anti-HIV drugs, and different from the viral fusion process that our drug candidates target. We expect to face intense and increasing competition in the future as these new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. We cannot assure you that existing or new drugs for the treatment of HIV developed by our competitors will not be more effective, less expensive or more effectively marketed and sold than Fuzeon or any other drug treatment that we may develop. We are investing additional resources in attempting to optimize Fuzeon’s current product profile, ranging from improved drug delivery and administration systems to evaluation of once-daily dosing with the current formulation of 21 Table of Contents Fuzeon. We cannot assure you that any of these or other product optimization efforts, ranging from laboratory feasibility testing to clinical trials involving smaller gauge needles or needle-free delivery systems including the Biojector B2000 system will be successful. The current sNDA filing with FDA for approval of the B2000 system administration option for Fuzeon may or may not be successful over the next 1-3 years. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we do. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the value of their inventions for the treatment of HIV and are more actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. We may not receive all necessary regulatory approvals for future drug candidates or approvals may be delayed. Our research and development activities and the testing, development, manufacturing and commercialization of any future drug candidates is subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and, to the extent that we may be engaged in activities outside of the United States, in other countries. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of substances such as our drug candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. If our future drug candidates receive the regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve product license applications, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of drugs, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of drugs or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts. The FDA also has the authority to revoke product licenses and establishment licenses that it has previously granted. A number of reasons, including those set forth below, may delay regulatory submissions for our drug candidates, cause us or our collaborators to cancel plans to submit proposed drug candidates for approval, or delay or prevent regulatory approval of proposed drug candidates: • unanticipated preclinical testing or clinical trial results; • changes in regulations, or the adoption of new regulations; • unanticipated enforcement of existing regulations; • the imposition of additional conditions on marketing or commercialization; • limitations on the indicated uses for which our drug candidates may be marketed; • unexpected technological developments; • developments by our competitors; and • delay in manufacturing validation or scale-up. The FDA may not accept our application to broaden the indication for Fuzeon administration or may request additional studies, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Currently our only significant source of revenue comes from the sale of Fuzeon. We believe that the method of Fuzeon injection is a limiting factor in the acceptance of Fuzeon by patients and prescribing physicians. In order to address patient and prescriber concerns we are attempting to develop alternative administration options for Fuzeon. One such effort involves the Biojector 2000, or B2000, injection system, manufactured by Bioject Medical Technologies Inc. The B2000 system is a needle-free CO2-powered injector that disperses liquid medication through the skin. In May 2005, Roche, with the Company’s support, filed a supplemental new drug application, or sNDA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for inclusion of B2000 information about the needle-free injection device in the Fuzeon labeling. In November 2005, the FDA issued an approvable letter for the Biojector 2000, requiring the submission of additional data from the WAND clinical trial. We expect to provide the data from this trial to the FDA in the second half of 2006. 22 Table of Contents We cannot assure that the FDA will ever accept our data submission or that we will be successful in our attempts to broaden the Fuzeon label to incorporate administration of Fuzeon with the B2000 need-free injector. The current sNDA filing with FDA for approval of the B2000 system administration option for Fuzeon may or may not be successful over the next 1-3 years. HIV is likely to develop resistance to Fuzeon and any of our future drug candidates, which could adversely affect demand for those drug candidates and harm our competitive position. HIV is prone to genetic mutations that can produce viral strains resistant to particular drug treatments. HIV has developed resistance, in varying degrees, to each of the currently approved anti-HIV drug treatments, including Fuzeon. As a result, combination therapy, or the prescribed use of three or more anti-HIV drugs, has become the preferred method of treatment for HIV-infected patients, because in combination these drugs may prove effective against strains of HIV that have become resistant to one or more drugs in the combination. In the clinical trials we have conducted to date, HIV has demonstrated the ability to develop resistance to Fuzeon, as it has with respect to all other currently-marketed anti-HIV drugs. If HIV, in a wide patient population, in a short time period, develops resistance to Fuzeon or our other drug candidates when used in combination therapy, it would adversely affect demand for those drug candidates and harm our competitive position. Our business is based on a novel technology called fusion inhibition, and unexpected side effects or other characteristics of this technology may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval and/ or commercialization of our drug candidates. The technology platform underlying our drug development program is novel because it is designed to discover drug candidates that treat viral infection by preventing the virus from fusing to and entering host cells that viruses use to reproduce themselves. Historically, anti-HIV therapy has primarily involved the inhibition of specific viral enzymes that are necessary for HIV to replicate. We are not aware of any other approved anti-HIV pharmaceutical products that target the inhibition of viral fusion. As a result, existing preclinical and clinical data on the safety and efficacy of this technology are somewhat limited. Although the most common adverse side effect reported with respect to Fuzeon to date has been mild to moderate local skin irritations at the site of injection, we may discover other unacceptable side effects of our drug candidates, including side effects that may only become apparent after long-term exposure. We may also encounter technological challenges relating to these technologies and applications in our research and development programs that we may not be able to resolve. Any such unexpected side effects or technological challenges may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval and/or commercialization of our drug candidates. We are dependent on the successful outcome of clinical trials for our drug candidates. The FDA granted full approval for the commercial sale of Fuzeon in October 2004. We do not have any other drug candidates that have received FDA or any other regulatory authority for approval of commercialization. In order to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell a drug candidate commercially, we must demonstrate to the FDA and other applicable United States and foreign regulatory authorities that the drug candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. We attempt to demonstrate this through a lengthy and complex process of preclinical testing and clinical trials, which typically takes a number of years. We also plan to do post-approval clinical trials for Fuzeon to provide additional clinical data to aid Roche and our marketing efforts. Our success will depend on the success of these clinical trials. We cannot assure that the results of prior clinical trials will warrant further clinical trials or the submission of NDAs for any potential drug candidates. We may not be able to demonstrate that potential drug candidates that appeared promising in preclinical testing and early clinical trials will be safe or effective in advanced clinical trials that involve larger numbers of patients studied over longer durations. We may be required to redesign, delay or cancel our preclinical testing and clinical trials for some or all of the following reasons, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations: • unanticipated adverse or ambiguous results from our preclinical testing or clinical trials; • change in the focus of Roche; 23 Table of Contents • the inability to achieve an acceptable commercial formulation; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials; • our inability to locate, recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; • difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities at the requisite quality of the particular drug candidate or any other components needed for our preclinical testing or clinical trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; • change in the focus of our development efforts; and • re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. Given the uncertainty surrounding the clinical trial process, we may not be able to successfully develop, commercialize and market Fuzeon or any of our other drug candidates, which would severely harm our business, impair our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our stock price. Obtaining regulatory approvals and maintaining compliance with government regulations will entail significant costs that could harm our ability to achieve profitability. Due to uncertainties inherent in the clinical development and government regulatory approval process, we may underestimate the cost and/or length of time associated with the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We will be required to expend significant resources to comply with regulations affecting research and development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization activities for our drug candidates. We do not separately track as an accounting item the amounts we spend to comply with regulatory requirements, but the majority of our activities and expenditures to date, including our preclinical and clinical trial activities and expenditures, have been undertaken directly or indirectly in order to comply with applicable governmental regulations. If compliance with these regulations proves more costly than anticipated, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to raise additional capital necessary to support our development programs and expand our operations could lower our revenues and reduce our ability to compete. We have incurred significant costs as a result of research and development, clinical trials, and the preparation and submission of the Fuzeon NDA to the FDA. We have continued to incur significant expenditures related to the manufacture, sale and marketing of Fuzeon. Under the current operating environment, excluding any extraordinary items, based on current sales levels of Fuzeon, we expect that our existing capital resources, together with the interest earned thereon, will be adequate to fund our current programs for at least the next 24 months. However, any reduction in Fuzeon sales below currently expected levels or increase in expenditures beyond currently expected levels would increase our capital requirements substantially beyond our current expectations. In the event Roche becomes unable or unwilling to share future development expenses for Fuzeon or other compounds covered by our agreements, our capital requirements would increase substantially beyond our current expectations. We have an ongoing program of business development which may lead to the establishment of collaborative or licensing arrangements with third parties. In the event we enter into additional agreements with third parties, our expenditures may be increased. We have financed our activities primarily through public offerings and private placements of our common stock, and we expect to continue to rely primarily on sales of our equity securities if we are required to raise additional funds in the future. Our access to capital could be limited if we do not achieve continued progress in our research and development programs, preclinical testing and clinical trials, and regulatory approvals for our product candidates. If we fail to meet the clinical and financial expectations of securities analysts and investors, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and restrict or eliminate our ability to raise additional funds by selling equity. We also could be limited by overall market conditions. The public capital markets in which our common stock trades have been extremely volatile. Our failure to raise additional funds or to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations would seriously harm our business. 24 Table of Contents If we cannot maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, or if these third parties do not perform as agreed, the commercial development of our drug candidates could be delayed or otherwise materially and adversely affected. We do not have any manufacturing experience, nor do we have any manufacturing facilities. We and Roche have selected Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado to manufacture commercial quantities of the bulk drug substance of Fuzeon. We and Roche have selected one of Roche’s manufacturing facilities to produce the finished drug product from such bulk drug substance through a process involving lyophilization, or freeze-drying. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Moreover, under our agreement with Roche, we are required to reimburse a portion of the expenses incurred by Roche in connection with its manufacture of Fuzeon. Third-party manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA regulations, production costs, and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Our third-party manufacturers, including Roche, may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce and market Fuzeon and our other drug candidates. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance of Fuzeon on a commercial scale is extremely limited. In addition, only a limited number of third party manufacturers have the capability to produce a finished drug product on a commercial scale through a process involving lyophilization. Roche’s facility in Boulder, Colorado is the only facility manufacturing Fuzeon bulk drug substance. In the event the intended manufacturing plan generates insufficient supplies of Fuzeon, or the Boulder facility ceases operation for any reason, we do not have an alternate manufacturing plan in place at this time, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. We do not have insurance to cover any shortages or other problems in the manufacturing of Fuzeon or our other drug candidates. If our third-party manufacturers, including Roche, fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished drug product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities at a substantially equivalent cost and on a timely basis, the commercial development of Fuzeon or our other drug candidates could be delayed or otherwise materially and adversely affected. Dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of Fuzeon or our other drug candidates may harm our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If Roche or our manufacturing partners do not maintain good manufacturing practices, it could negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our drug candidates. The FDA and other regulatory authorities must approve the facilities that will be used to manufacture commercial quantities of our drug candidates before commencement of commercial sales. In addition, these authorities require that our products be manufactured according to good manufacturing practice regulations. The failure by us, Roche or other third- party manufacturers to maintain current good manufacturing practices compliance and/or our failure to increase our manufacturing processes as needed to meet demand for our drugs could lead to refusal by the FDA to approve marketing applications. Failure in either respect could also be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals previously granted and for other regulatory action. In addition, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process with respect to Fuzeon or any of our other drug candidates, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or location or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials we have conducted. If we are unable to demonstrate this equivalence, we will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply or use the modified process. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence, and our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. Our internal research programs and our efforts to obtain rights to new products from third parties may not yield potential products for clinical development, which would adversely affect any future revenues. Our long-term success depends in part on our ability to either identify through internal research programs, or to obtain through licenses from third parties, potential drug candidates that may be developed into new pharmaceutical 25 Table of Contents products. A significant portion of the research that we have conducted and will conduct involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify drug candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not such programs identify any drug candidates. Our research programs may fail to yield drug candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including: • the research methodology used may not successfully identify potential drug candidates; • potential drug candidates may on further study be shown to have unduly harmful side effects or characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective drugs; • we may be unable to develop larger scale manufacturing methods for particular drug candidates that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards; and • others may hold intellectual property rights that prevent us from developing, making or selling certain products. We may be unable to obtain suitable drug candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons, including: • we may be unable to purchase or license such compounds on terms that would allow us to obtain an appropriate return on our investment in the product; • third parties may be unwilling to assign or license product rights to us if they believe such rights would allow us to compete with them; • we may be unable to identify suitable products or drug candidates within our areas of expertise; or • drug candidates that we acquire may not be approved by regulatory authorities due to problems with their safety or effectiveness. If we are unable to develop suitable potential drug candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights to new products from third parties, our future revenue growth will suffer. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited exclusive protection and do not protect against infringement. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our assets and business could be materially harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our collaborators and licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights for our drugs and technologies. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the biotechnology field in which we operate is still evolving and involves a great deal of uncertainty. Although we own or exclusively license more than 40 issued United States patents, and numerous pending United States patent applications, corresponding foreign patents and patent applications, including issued patents and patent applications relating to Fuzeon, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure how much protection, if any, our patents will provide if we attempt to enforce them and/or if the patents are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in limitations of their coverage. In addition, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents can be substantial. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, third parties may be able to use our patented technologies without paying licensing fees or royalties to us. Further, we cannot assure that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Because U.S. patent applications may be maintained in secrecy until a patent issues or is otherwise published, we cannot assure that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications. Moreover, we cannot assure that we were the first to invent the technology, which, under U.S. patent law, is a prerequisite to obtaining patent coverage. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application on the technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, i.e., which party was the first to invent. The costs of these proceedings can be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims. Such proceedings are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or enforceable or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that its technology is not covered by our patents. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Recently, several generic drug-makers in countries such as India have offered to sell HIV drugs currently protected under United States patents to patients in Africa at prices significantly below those offered by the drugs’ patent holders in other countries. There is a risk that these drugs produced by the generic drug-makers could be illegally made or imported into the United States and other countries at prices below those charged by the drugs’ patent holders. If any of these actions occur with respect to our drugs, it could limit the amount we could charge for our drugs. In addition to our patented technology, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We require each of our employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting or collaborative relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and market price of our stock. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidates. Other companies, universities and research institutions conduct research and development efforts in market segments, including viral fusion inhibition and the treatment of HIV infection, where we and our collaborators focus research and development activities. While we are not aware of any patents held by these third parties that we believe will limit our ability to use, manufacture, market or sell Fuzeon or our potential drug candidates, these third parties may have obtained or may obtain patents that do so. We cannot assure that third parties will not assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our collaborators with respect to technologies used in Fuzeon or our potential drug candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of third party patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our drug development and commercialization efforts or other business operations. As a result of a patent infringement suit brought against us, we may have to cease or delay development activities, unless that party is willing to grant us rights to use its intellectual property. Thus we may have to obtain licenses from other parties before we could continue using, manufacturing, marketing or selling our potential drugs. Those licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may not be able to market our potential drugs at all or we may encounter significant delays in drug development while we redesign potentially infringing drugs or methods. Uncertainty relating to third -party reimbursement and health care reform measures could limit the amount we will be able to charge for our drugs and adversely affect our results of operations. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription drugs depend, in part, on the consumer’s ability to obtain reimbursement for the cost of the drugs from third-party payors, such as private and government insurance programs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services in an effort to promote cost containment measures and alternative health care delivery systems. Because of the high cost of the treatment of HIV, many state legislatures are also reassessing reimbursement policies for this therapy. If third-party 27 Table of Contents payor reimbursements for Fuzeon or any of our other drug candidates that we commercialize are not available or are not available at a level that will allow us or our current or future collaborative partners to sell these drugs on a competitive basis, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, emphasis in the United States on the reduction of the overall costs of health care through managed care has increased and will continue to increase the pressure to reduce the prices of pharmaceutical products. The announcement and/or adoption of these types of proposals or efforts could also materially and adversely affect our business, because the amount of revenue that we may potentially be able to generate in the future for Fuzeon or any of our other drug candidates could affect an investor’s decision to invest in us, the amount of funds we decide to spend now on our development and clinical trial efforts, and/or our decision to seek regulatory approval for certain drug candidates. The WAC of a one year’s supply of Fuzeon in the United States is approximately $22,200. A high drug price could also limit our ability to receive reimbursement coverage for our drugs from third-party payors, such as private or government insurance programs. If Roche is unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement from a significant number of third-party payors, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Roche has made significant progress in achieving reimbursement from the various payors in the United States. Currently Fuzeon is covered by Medicaid in all 50 states, 43 of the state and territorial AIDS Drug Assistance Programs, or ADAPs, and a majority of private insurers. However there are reimbursement challenges remaining. Some of the payors require patients to meet minimum medical requirements, such as CD4 cell levels, to receive reimbursement. Other payors limit the number of patients that they will provide reimbursement for Fuzeon, and other payors may require co-payments by the patient in order to receive reimbursement for Fuzeon that are significantly higher than those required for other anti-HIV drugs. We and Roche will continue to actively address these issues during 2006. Several major pharmaceutical companies have offered to sell their anti-HIV drugs at or below cost to certain countries in Africa, which could adversely affect the reimbursement climate, and the prices that may be charged, for HIV medications in the United States and the rest of the world. Third-party payors could exert pressure for price reductions in the United States and the rest of the world based on these offers to Africa. This price pressure could limit the amount that we would be able to charge for our drugs. If an accident or injury involving hazardous materials occurs, we could incur fines or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and our reputation. In our drug development programs, we use hazardous materials that are subject to government regulations, including chemicals, radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, such as viruses and HIV-infected blood. We believe that our handling and disposal of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, but we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. If we fail to comply with these regulations or if a contamination, injury or other accident occurs in connection with our development activities, we could be held liable for any damages or penalized with fines. Although our general liability insurance coverage may cover some of these liabilities, the amount of the liability and fines could exceed our resources. We currently maintain general liability insurance coverage in the amount of approximately $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential liabilities. If the testing or use of our drug candidates harms people, we could face costly and damaging product liability claims far in excess of our liability and indemnification coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products, such as undesirable side effects or injury during clinical trials. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of drugs that we or our potential collaborators may develop and the subsequent sale of these drugs by us or our potential collaborators may expose us to liability risks relating to these drugs. 28 Table of Contents We have obtained an advanced medical technology policy which includes limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential liabilities. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for drug candidates in development, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against our potential liabilities. Furthermore, our collaborators or licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any product liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage or indemnification payments that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. If our operating results for a particular period deviate from the levels expected by securities analysts and investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate over time, due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: • the market acceptance and sales levels for Fuzeon; • the status and progress of our collaborative agreement with Roche; • the status of our research and development activities; • the progress of our drug candidates through preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the timing of regulatory actions; • our ability to establish manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, either internally or through relationships with third parties; • technological and other changes in the competitive landscape; • changes in our existing or future research and development relationships and strategic alliances; and • the commercial viability of Fuzeon or our other drug candidates. As a result, we believe that comparing our results of operations for one period against another period is not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on our results of operations in prior periods as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations for a period deviate from the levels expected by securities analysts and investors, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we lose any of our executive management or other key employees, we will have difficulty replacing them. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms, the development of our drug candidates and our financial position may suffer. Because our business is very science-oriented and relies considerably on individual skill and experience in the research, development and testing of our drug candidates, we depend heavily on members of our senior management and scientific staff. We have entered into employment agreements with Steven D. Skolsky, our Chief Executive Officer, Dani Bolognesi, our Chief Scientific Officer and Robert R. Bonczek, our Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel. Each of these agreements is automatically renewed, subject to termination by either of the parties. We have entered into employment agreements with all employees that are at the level of Vice President or above. These agreements have a term of one year and are renewable at the Company’s option. Future recruitment and retention of management personnel and qualified scientific personnel is also critical to our success. We cannot assure you that we will successfully attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced management personnel and scientists. If we cannot attract and 29 Table of Contents retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel or if a significant number of our key employees depart, our drug development efforts and the timing and success of our clinical trials may be materially and adversely affected. Even if we do hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, the expense necessary to compensate them may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we rely on scientific advisors and other consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. These consultants are employed by other parties and may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities, which may limit their availability to us. If we are unable to meet or maintain the standards for maintaining internal controls over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our stock price could be materially harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 has required and will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In future years our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that we would be required to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the Nasdaq National Market or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We rely on our collaborative partner Roche to timely deliver important financial information relating to Fuzeon sales and expenses. In the event that this information is inaccurate, incomplete or not timely we will not be able to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. We and Roche have entered into a collaboration for the development and commercialization of certain therapeutic peptides for the treatment of HIV. Through this collaboration, the companies have successfully developed and brought to market the first viral fusion inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, Fuzeon. Under our collaboration agreement, Roche has significant control over the sale and distribution of Fuzeon to wholesalers. Roche sets the price of Fuzeon to wholesalers, along with any rebates and incentives, and the terms of any returns. Roche records all sales of Fuzeon. As such, Roche has exclusive control over the flow of important information relating to the sale of Fuzeon that we require in order to timely and accurately report in our SEC filings. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act we are required to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Roche endeavors to provide us with timely and accurate financial data related to the sale of Fuzeon so that we may meet our reporting requirements under federal securities laws. In the event that Roche fails to provide us with timely and accurate information, we may incur significant liability with respect to the federal securities laws, our disclosure controls and procedures under Sarbanes-Oxley and possibly be forced to restate our financials any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter requires us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which obligates us to make substantial payments and to incur significant insurance-related expenses. Our charter requires that we indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. This could require us, with some legally prescribed exceptions, to indemnify our directors and officers against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement of an action, suit or proceeding brought against any of them by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of Trimeris. In addition, expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending any such action, suit or proceeding must be paid by us in advance of the final disposition of that action, suit or proceeding if we receive an undertaking by the director or officer to repay us if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. In furtherance of these 30 Table of Contents obligations, we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance in the amount of $40 million. Our policies expire in October 2006. For future renewals, if we are able to retain coverage, we may be required to pay a higher premium for our directors’ and officers’ insurance than in the past and/or the amount of our insurance coverage may be decreased. We are controlled by our management and other related parties. As of January 1, 2006, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they collectively have substantial influence in the election of our directors and significant control over our management, business and policies. In addition, they may delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares. They may exercise this influence in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders Available Information We maintain a website on the World Wide Web at www.trimeris.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 