ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, WHICH COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO ACCURATELY EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS. We began offering our environmental inspection services as Environmental Service Professionals, Inc. in October 2006 and our association management services in July 2007. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history and, as a result, we have limited financial data that you can use to evaluate our business and prospects. Our business model is evolving and it may not be successful. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. Although we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, we may not be able to sustain this growth. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in our state of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to do the following: o Maintain and expand our current relationships, and develop new relationships with state, federal and environmental regulatory bodies o Gain the acceptance of the commercial and residential insurance industry to a level where they will consider offering a discount to their policyholders, if their customers/insured's receive an initial inspection services and then participate in an annual inspection program o Maintain and expand our current relationships, and develop new relationships with the industry stakeholders including insurance, mortgage, and banking businesses, and realtors, builders, asset managers and the consumer o Continue to grow our revenue and meet anticipated growth targets o Manage our expanding operations and implement and improve our operational, financial, and management controls o Respond effectively to competition o Implement ESP's national marketing campaign o Attract and retain qualified management and employees o Attract the existing top tier home and moisture inspectors nationwide and to become approved vendors as independent contractors in order to deliver the CEHI Program of services If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operation, and prospects could suffer. -13- LACK OF PUBLIC ACCEPTANCE OF OUR SERVICES WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT OUR SALES AND PROFITABILITY. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the acceptance of our services as an effective and reliable method to perform indoor air quality and energy use inspections. Our business is also dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing program to convince potential clients and potential independent contractors to utilize our services so that we will become profitable. We cannot assure that the public or industry stakeholders will accept our inspection services, or that we will be successful or that our business will earn any profit. We cannot assure that we will earn any revenues or that investors will not lose their entire investment. We cannot assure that we will operate our business successfully or that our common stock will have value. A failure of our marketing campaign would have a material adverse impact on its operating results, financial condition and business performance. WE MAY RISK EXPOSURE FROM LIABILITY CLAIMS. Environmental inspectors face the risk of exposure to liability claims in the event that the use of analysis reports or reliance on inspection protocols cause property damage, injury or illness as a result of contamination from environmental hazards that were included in such analysis, inspection protocols, or otherwise. We expect to maintain sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, such insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. Although we intend to seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying its services, such indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our future net earnings and earnings per share. WE MAY BE HARMED BY ACTIONS TAKEN BY OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTORS THAT ARE OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL. A significant portion of our environmental inspectors are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to the environmental inspectors, but the quality of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, our environmental inspectors may not successfully operate in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified personnel. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other environmental inspectors, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our environmental inspectors do not operate successfully. WE MAY BECOME RELIANT ON TECHNOLOGY FOR EFFICIENT OPERATIONS WHICH COULD INCREASE OUR OPERATING COSTS IN THE SHORT TERM AND MAKE US VULNERABLE TO DISRUPTIONS. The need to synchronize data and the related information which is key to our on-line work flow system. Global trends are moving toward developing and adopting standardized protocols for data synchronization. The implementation of these protocols will be an added expense encountered by us in executing our business strategy. One of the greatest coordination challenges for us is having inspectors utilize on-line work flow systems effectively to ensure efficient and effective service to our clients and to capture the mission critical data post inspection. The Internet is playing a growing role in creating an automated communications network for presenting, tracking, and capturing this mission critical information. We believe that we will need to develop a network to enable the on-line work flow system on the Internet in order to operate profitability, which could increase our operating costs in the short term. Our ability to reduce costs in the long term and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, may depend on the reliability of our technology network. We expect to use software and other technology systems to dispatch inspectors in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of standardized inspection and analysis protocols and minimize the time spent at each stop. Any disruption to these computer systems in the future could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business, and result in increased costs. While we expect to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, we recognize that these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. -14- OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, IN PART, DEPENDS UPON OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE AND MANAGE ACQUISITIONS OF OTHER COMPANIES. Our primary strategy is to achieve growth through acquisitions of businesses. We may not be able to make acquisitions in the future and any acquisitions we do make may not be successful. Furthermore, future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect upon our operating results, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of those transactions while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the business of the acquired company into our operations, marketing programs, and reporting and information systems. We may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired company's operations or personnel, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our ability to integrate acquisitions may be adversely affected by many factors, including the relatively large size of a business and the allocation of our limited management resources among various integration efforts. In connection with the acquisitions of businesses in the future, we may decide to consolidate the operations of any acquired business with our existing operations or make other changes with respect to the acquired business, which could result in special charges or other expenses. Our results of operations also may be adversely affected by expenses we incur in making acquisitions, by amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets with definite lives and by additional depreciation attributable to acquired assets. Any of the businesses we acquire may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues, including some that we fail to discover before the acquisition, and our indemnity for such liabilities typically has been limited and may, with respect to future acquisitions, also be limited. Additionally, our ability to make any future acquisitions may depend upon obtaining additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we seek to acquire other businesses in exchange for our common stock, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete acquisitions. WE HAVE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR PROPOSED ACQUISITIONS WILL BE COMPLETED. Our business strategy, in part, is to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions. We have not entered into any agreements, arrangements or understandings to acquire any operating companies, and we cannot assure that any acquisition will be completed for any number of reasons. These reasons include, but are not limited to, our ability to obtain funding, complete the necessary due diligence to our satisfaction, agree on all material terms of definitive purchase agreements, obtain audited financial statements consistent with the unaudited financial statements, or otherwise consummate the acquisition of any or all of such entities. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MANAGE PROPOSED ACQUISITIONS AND ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. In the event that we are able to complete any acquisitions, such acquisitions would present numerous challenges to us. These include, but are not limited to, the integration of the acquired entities with our operations, technologies and management and the attendant risks associated with such acquisitions, including, but not limited to, possible unanticipated liabilities, unanticipated costs, and diversion of management attention or loss of personnel. We cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate or profitably manage any acquired businesses, that our continued business will achieve sales levels, profitability, efficiencies or synergies that justify the acquisitions, or that the acquisitions will result in increased earnings for us in any future period. Successful integration of our operations will depend on, among other things, our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled management and other personnel, none of which can be assured. To manage growth effectively, we will need to invest in development of enhancements to existing services, implement operational, financial and management information systems, procedures and controls, and integrate our personnel and operations with those of an acquired company. We cannot assure that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. -15- WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES AS A RESULT OF PROPOSED ACQUISITIONS. While we will conduct whatever due diligence we can with regard to all acquisitions, there may be significant undisclosed liabilities associated with an entity that might not be known to us prior to an acquisition. The indemnities and warranties that we will receive in connection with the proposed acquisitions might not fully cover such liabilities, in which case our operations may be adversely affected. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE AGAINST COMPANIES WITH SUBSTANTIALLY GREATER RESOURCES. The indoor air quality testing industry is extremely competitive. Our principal competitors include other indoor air quality testers, certified industrial hygienists, home inspectors, termite inspectors, and remediation and abatement companies. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases, and substantially greater financial and marketing resources than ESP. We believe that the principal factors affecting competition in this proposed market include name recognition, and the ability to receive referrals based on client confidence in our services. There are no significant barriers of entry that could keep potential competitors from opening similar indoor air quality testing facilities. Our ability to compete successfully in the industry will depend in large part upon our ability to market and sell our indoor air quality testing services and to respond effectively to changing insurance industry standards and methodology. We cannot assure that ESP will be able to compete successfully in the indoor air quality testing industry, or that future competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. WE MAY FROM TIME TO TIME BE SUBJECT TO DISPUTES WITH CUSTOMERS AND VENDORS RELATING TO AMOUNTS INVOICED FOR SERVICES PROVIDED WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESOLVE IN OUR FAVOR. It is not unusual in our industry to occasionally have disagreements with vendors relating to amounts billed for services provided between the recipient of the services and the vendor. To the extent we are unable to favorably resolve these disputes, our revenues, profitability or cash may be adversely affected. OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS UNCERTAIN. We rely on know-how and trade secrets to maintain our competitive position. Confidentiality agreements or other agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology, know-how, trade secrets, or other proprietary information in the event of misappropriation, unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, or, even if such agreements are legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of our agreements to protect our proprietary technology could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. The market for our services depends to some extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and service marks. We own, or have licenses to use, the material trademarks, service marks and trade names used in connection with the marketing and performance of our services in the markets where those services are sold. Therefore, trademark protection is important to our business. Although our trademarks and service marks are registered in the United States, we may not be successful in asserting trademark protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our trademarks or service marks to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss or infringement of our trademarks or service marks could impair the goodwill associated with our brands, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES FOR THE NEAR FUTURE. We project that we will continue to incur development and administrative expenses and operate at a loss for up to the next three years unless we are able to complete several acquisitions or generate substantial revenues from inspection and membership services. We cannot be certain whether or when we will be able to achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties with respect to our business. -16- OUR CURRENT CAPITALIZATION IS INADEQUATE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RAISE THE REQUIRED CAPITAL TO CONDUCT OUR OPERATIONS. We have incurred substantial indebtedness through short-term bridge loans and other short term loans made to us during the past 12 months by investors and lenders. These loans have maturity dates occurring in the second quarter of 2008. We must raise substantial equity capital in order to refinance these short-term loans because our businesses do not have sufficient revenue to service the debt. We cannot assure that we will be able to raise the necessary capital to repay our debt. If we default on the debt, a significant portion of which is secured by our assets, then we could lose our businesses and related assets, causing investors to lose their entire investment in us. Furthermore, we cannot assure that we will not incur debt in the future, that we will have sufficient funds to repay our indebtedness, or that we will not default on our debt, jeopardizing our business viability. We may not be able to borrow or raise additional capital in the future to meet our needs or to otherwise provide the capital necessary to conduct our business. We will require additional capital resources including, but not limited to, exercise of outstanding warrants, in order to conduct our operations and raise sufficient working capital, as well as in order to grow and expand our business. Future events may lead to increased costs that could make it difficult for us to succeed. To raise additional capital, we may be required to sell additional equity securities, or accept debt financing or obtain financing through a bank or other entity. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional stock, there may be a significant dilution in the value of our outstanding common stock. We may not have binding arrangements with respect to additional financings, even though we have signed investment and financing commitments. If we so require, future financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We cannot assure that any additional financings will be available to us, which we will be able to obtain additional loans, or that adequate funds for our operations will otherwise be available when needed or on terms that are acceptable to us. The inability to secure additional financing would prevent us from achieving profitability and would have a material adverse effect upon us, which may result in the loss of your investment in ESP. OUR INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION THAT COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws that govern indoor air quality assessors and hygienists, business licensing, and those governing health, safety, the rights of employees, employment discrimination, wrongful termination, wages, hours, taxes, quality of service, and other matters. A failure by us or our independent environmental inspectors to comply with applicable government regulations or insurance company requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED ASSUMING THAT WE WILL CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. The accompanying financial statements to this filing have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 10 to the financial statements, we generated net losses of $31,237,703 during the period from September 29, 1992 (inception) through December 31, 2008. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on our ability to meet our obligations, to obtain additional financing as may be required, and ultimately to attain profitability. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Management plans to raise additional funds through debt or equity offerings. We are insolvent unless and until we raise adequate capital to repay our short-term indebtedness which is in default. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise any capital through any type of offerings. WE ARE CURRENTLY IN DEFAULT ON OUR BRIDGE LOANS. We have failed to repay our bridge loans on a timely basis. Currently, our bridge loan lenders are exercising forbearance on a voluntary day-to-day basis. We cannot assure that our lenders will continue to refrain from enforcement and foreclosure on their loans. If we are not able to repay or refinance bridge loans, we may experience foreclosure on our assets and a cessation of our business. In such circumstances you may lose your entire investment in ESP. -17- WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO REPURCHASE STOCK ISSUED TO CERTAIN BRIDGE LOAN LENDERS. We have an obligation to repurchase stock issued to certain bridge loan lenders. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient funds to repurchase the stock and we may default on this obligation. Currently, we have an obligation to repurchase 215,321 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.00 per share. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE ECONOMY AND GEOPOLITICAL EVENTS. Our business could be affected by general economic conditions and those specific to the inspection, real-estate and energy management industries. In addition, our business could be affected by geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Such an economic downturn or geopolitical event could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. IF WE WERE TO LOSE THE SERVICES OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. Our success is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Given our early stage of operation, we are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high quality personnel. Although we believe we will be able to engage qualified personnel for such purposes, an inability to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to market and perform our services. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our inability to hire and retain other qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business IF WE ARE UNABLE TO HIRE, RETAIN OR MOTIVATE QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, CONSULTANTS, INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS AND ADVISORS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GROW EFFECTIVELY. Our performance will be largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for such qualified employees is intense. If we do not succeed in attracting excellent personnel or in retaining or motivating them, we may be unable to grow effectively. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain key consultants and advisors. We cannot assure that any skilled individuals will agree to become an employee, consultant or independent contractor of ESP. Our inability to retain their services could negatively impact our business and our ability to execute our business strategy. DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS HAVE LIMITED LIABILITY. As permitted by the Nevada General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws limit the personal liability of our directors and stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director or stockholder, but such provision does not eliminate or limit the liability of a director in certain circumstances, such as for: (i) any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) under Section 174 of the Nevada General Corporate Law; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If we were called upon to perform under our indemnification agreement, then the portion of our assets expended for such purpose would reduce the amount otherwise available for our business. UNTIL OCTOBER 2006, WE WERE A PUBLIC SHELL COMPANY. THERE ARE CERTAIN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSACTIONS WITH PUBLIC SHELL COMPANIES GENERALLY, INCLUDING INCREASED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SCRUTINY AND REGULATION AND LACK OF ANALYST COVERAGE. Prior to October 2006, we were effectively a public shell company with no material assets or operations and our only value was that we maintained current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and a class of securities that was traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Substantial additional risks are associated with a public shell merger transaction such as the absence of accurate or adequate public information concerning the public shell; undisclosed liabilities; improper accounting; claims or litigation from former officers, directors, employees or stockholders; contractual obligations; regulatory requirements and others. Although management performed due diligence on the public shell company, there can be no assurance that such risks do not -18- occur. The occurrence of any such risk could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Security analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary public offerings on our behalf or make a market in our stock in the future. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE CONSIDERED A "PENNY STOCK" AND MAY BE DIFFICULT TO SELL. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a "penny stock" according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. In addition, since our common stock is currently traded on the NASD's OTC Bulletin Board, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS HAVE SIGNIFICANT VOTING POWER AND MAY TAKE ACTIONS THAT MAY NOT BE IN THE BEST INTEREST OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. As of March 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders who hold 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders are able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our shareholders. WE CAN PROVIDE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING WILL BE EFFECTIVE UNDER SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. Given the complexities and inherent risks associated with the operation of internal control over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"). Moreover, we can provide no assurance as to any matters that might be reported in our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm's audit report. If we are not able to implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other provisions of Section 404 in a timely fashion or achieve adequate compliance with these requirements or other requirements of SOX, we might become subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA"). Any such action may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value of our securities, including our common stock. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could result in a lower trading price for our securities. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN, AND IS LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE WITH LIMITED LIQUIDITY. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of service companies generally have been highly volatile. Trading volume has been extremely light and may not increase, resulting in limited liquidity for stockholders. The trading price of our common stock may decline or fail to appreciate. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include: o variations in our operating results; o announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; o recruitment or departure of key personnel; -19- o changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; o developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; o the gain or loss of significant customers; o market conditions in the inspection industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; and o adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for service company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE OF AN ESTABLISHED PUBLIC TRADING MARKET, AND THE FAILURE TO ESTABLISH ONE WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE ABILITY OF OUR INVESTORS TO SELL THEIR SECURITIES IN THE PUBLIC MARKET. At present, there is minimal trading of our securities, and there can be no assurance that an active trading market will develop. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than FINRA's automated quotation system, or NASDAQ Stock Market. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original price or at any price. TRADING ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD MAY BE DETRIMENTAL TO INVESTORS. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wide spread between the bid/ask quotations. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. In the absence of an active trading market, investors may have difficulty buying and selling our common stock or obtaining market quotations, market visibility for our common stock may be limited, and a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm's attestation to or report on management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. WE DO NOT FORESEE PAYING CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock and do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. WE MAY USE OUR PREFERRED STOCK AS AN ANTI-TAKEOVER DEVICE. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value. The preferred stock may be issued in series from time to time with such designation, voting and other rights, preferences and limitations as our Board of Directors may determine by resolution. Unless the nature of a particular transaction and applicable statutes require such approval, the Board -20- of Directors has the authority to issue these shares without stockholder approval subject to approval of the holders of our preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of ESP without any further action by our stockholders. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND WE MAY INTERPRET OR IMPLEMENT REQUIRED POLICIES INCORRECTLY. We will follow generally accepted accounting principles for the U.S. in preparing our financial statements. As part of this process, we must make many estimates and judgments about future events. These affect the value of the assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses that we report in our financial statements. We believe these estimates and judgments are reasonable, and we make them in accordance with our accounting policies based on information available at the time. However, actual results could differ from our estimates, and this could require us to record adjustments to expenses or revenues that could be material to our financial position and results of operations in future periods. FUTURE POTENTIAL LITIGATION The Company and its affiliates may in the future become involved in litigation. The results of litigation, if any, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and its business, operating results, and financial condition. There is no assurance that the Company will not be subject to litigation or will prevail in any litigation, or that the litigation will not result in a material loss to the Company. INADEQUACY OF COMPANY FUNDS The Company has limited capital available to it. If the Company's entire capital is fully expended and additional costs cannot be funded from borrowings or capital from other sources, then the Company's financial condition, results of operations and business performance would be materially adversely affected. There is no assurance that the Company will have adequate capital to conduct its business. NO ASSURANCE OF PROFIT The Company's business is speculative and dependent upon the Company's ability to market and sell its environmental inspection services and related products and services, of which there is no assurance. The Company has incurred operating losses since inception and may incur operating losses in the future. There is no assurance as to whether the Company will be successful or earn profits. There is no assurance that the Company will earn significant revenues. DETERMINATION OF CONSIDERATION TO MANAGEMENT The Common Stock and cash consideration being paid by the Company to its management and its affiliates has not been determined based on arms length negotiation. While management believes that the consideration is fair for the work being performed, there is no assurance that the consideration to management reflects the true market value of its services. OPERATIONS - POSSIBLE LIENS If the Company fails to pay for materials and services for its business on a timely basis, the Company's assets could be subject to material men and workmen's liens. The Company may also be subject to bank liens in the event that it defaults on loans from banks, if any. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The relationship of management and its affiliates to the Company could create conflicts of interest. While management has a fiduciary duty to the Company, it also determines its compensation from the Company. Management believes that it will have the resources necessary to fulfill its management obligations to all entities for which it is responsible. Management's compensation from the Company has not been determined pursuant to arm's-length negotiation. -21- RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH POSSIBLE NONCOMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAWS There is no assurance that in the course of prior offerings of securities made by the Company, inadvertent noncompliance with applicable federal or state securities laws has not occurred. If a security holder in the Company asserts a claim based on an alleged violation of securities laws, or if a government agency makes such a charge, the Company may not have the necessary resources to repurchase the security, if a right of rescission is involved, or to otherwise settle the claim. WE MUST RESTATE CERTAIN OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. We must restate our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, as well as for the three months ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008 to reflect the Security and Exchange Commission's concerns regarding our prior accountant's treatment of our business combination which closed in October 2006. We do not anticipate that the changes to our financial statements will be material or that they will have a material adverse effect on our business, but we cannot assure that the changes will not adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. WE DID NOT TIMELY FILE WITH THE SEC OUR FORM 10-KSB FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007. AS A RESULT OF THIS DELAYED FILING, WE ARE CURRENTLY INELIGIBLE TO USE FORM S-3 TO REGISTER SECURITIES WITH THE SEC IN CAPITAL-RAISING TRANSACTIONS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FUTURE CAPITAL. We did not timely file with the SEC our Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Although the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will bring us current in our filings with the SEC, because our Form 10-KSB was not filed within the deadline promulgated by the SEC, the filing was not timely under applicable SEC rules. As a result of the delayed filing of our Form 10-KSB, we are ineligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 to register securities for sale by us or for resale by other security holders, in capital raising transactions, until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for at least 12 calendar months. In the meantime, for capital raising transactions, we would need to use Form S-1 to register securities with the SEC, or issue such securities in a private placement, which could increase the time and resources required to raise capital during this period. 