ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Introduction Current and potential investors in the Company should be aware that, as with any publicly traded company, investing in our securities carries risk. Managing risk effectively is paramount to our success, and our organization is built around intelligent risk assumptions and careful risk management, as evidenced by our development of the PartnerRe risk management framework, which provides an integrated approach to risk across the entire organization. We have identified what we believe reflect key significant risks to the organization, and, in turn, the shareholders. These risks should be read in conjunction with other Risk Factors described in more detail below under the heading Risk Factors. First, in order to achieve an appropriate compound annual growth in diluted tangible book value per share over the reinsurance cycle, we believe we must be able to generate an appropriate operating return on beginning diluted book value per share over the reinsurance cycle. Our ability to do that over a reinsurance cycle is dependent on our individual performance, but also on industry factors that impact the level of competition and 37 Table of Contents the price of risk. The level of competition is determined by supply of and demand for capacity. Demand is determined by client buying behavior, which varies based on the client’s perception of the amount and volatility of risk, its financial capacity to bear it and the cost of risk transfer. Supply is determined by the existing reinsurance companies’ level of financial strength and the introduction of capacity from new start-ups or capital markets. Significant new capacity or significant reduction in demand will depress industry profitability until the supply/demand balance is redressed. Extended periods of imbalance could depress industry profitability to a point where we would fail to meet our targets. Second, we knowingly expose ourselves to significant volatility in our quarterly and annual net income. We create shareholder value by assuming risk from the insurance and capital markets. This exposes us to volatile earnings as untoward events happen to our clients and in the capital markets. Examples of potential large loss events include, without limitation: • Natural catastrophes such as hurricane, windstorm, flood, tornado, earthquake, etc.; • Man-made disasters such as terrorism; • Declines in the equity and credit markets; • Systemic increases in the frequency or severity of casualty losses; and • New mass tort actions or reemergence of old mass torts such as cases related to asbestosis. We manage large loss events through evaluation processes, which are designed to enable proper pricing of these risks over time, but which do little to moderate short-term earnings volatility. The only effective tool to dampen earnings volatility is through diversification by building a portfolio of uncorrelated risks. We do not currently buy significant amounts of retrocessional coverage, nor do we use significant capital market hedges or trading strategies in the pursuit of stability in earnings. Third, we expose ourselves to several very significant risks that are of a size that can impact our financial strength as measured by U.S. GAAP or regulatory capital. We believe that the following can be categorized as very significant risks: • Natural catastrophe risk; • Long tail reinsurance risk; • Market risk; • Interest rate risk; • Default and credit spread risk; • Trade credit underwriting risk; • Longevity risk; • Pandemic risk; • Agriculture risk; and • Mortgage reinsurance risk. Most of these risks can accumulate to the point that they exceed a year’s worth of earnings and affect the capital base of the Company (for further information about these risks see Risk Management in Item 1 of Part I of this report). We rely on our internal risk management processes, models and systems to manage these risks at the nominal exposure levels approved by the Company’s Board. However, because these models and processes may fail, we also impose limits on our exposure to these risks. 38 Table of Contents In addition to these enumerated risks, we face numerous other strategic and operational risks that could in the aggregate lead to shortfalls to our long-term goals or add to short-term volatility in our earnings, as described in Risk Management in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The following review of important risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The words or phrases believe, anticipate, estimate, project, plan, expect, intend, hope, forecast, evaluate, will likely result or will continue or words or phrases of similar import generally involve forward-looking statements. As used in these Risk Factors, the terms “the Company”, “PartnerRe”, “we”, “our” or “us” may, depending upon the context, refer solely to the Company, to one or more of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a whole. 39 Table of Contents Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company The volatility of the catastrophe business that we underwrite will result in volatility of our earnings. Catastrophe reinsurance comprised approximately 8% of our net premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2013 and a larger percentage of our capital at risk. Catastrophe losses result from events such as windstorms, hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, tornadoes, severe winter weather, fires, drought, explosions and other natural and man-made disasters, the incidence and severity of which are inherently unpredictable. Because catastrophe reinsurance accumulates large aggregate exposures to man-made and natural disasters, our loss experience in this line of business could be characterized as low frequency and high severity. This is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year, and may create downward pressure on the market price of our common shares and limit our ability to make dividend payments and payments on our debt securities. Notwithstanding our endeavors to manage our exposure to catastrophic and other large losses, the effect of a single catastrophic event or series of events affecting one or more geographic zones, or changes in the relative frequency or severity of catastrophic or other large loss events, could reduce our earnings and limit the funds available to make payments on future claims. The effect of an increase in frequency of mid-size losses in any one reporting period affecting one or more geographic zones, such as an unusual level of hurricane activity, could also reduce our earnings. Should we incur more than one very large catastrophe loss, our ability to write future business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to replenish our capital. By way of illustration, during the past five calendar years, the Company incurred the following pre-tax large catastrophic losses and large losses, net of any related reinstatement premiums, reinsurance and profit commissions (in millions of U.S. dollars): Calendar year Pre-tax large catastrophe losses and large losses 2013 $ 142 2012 318 2011 1,790 2010 559 2009 — Examples of pre-tax large catastrophic losses and large losses reflected in the illustration above include losses in 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 which were incurred, to varying extents, as the result of multiple medium and large catastrophic events. In 2013, these events included the extensive flooding in Alberta, Canada (Alberta Floods) in June 2013, the hailstorm that affected large parts of Germany in July 2013 (German Hailstorm) and the floods that impacted large areas of Central Europe in June 2013 (European Floods). In 2012, these events included Superstorm Sandy and the U.S. drought which impacted the agriculture line of business in the North America sub-segment. In 2011, these events included the Japan Earthquake, the February and June 2011 New Zealand Earthquakes, Thailand Floods, U.S. tornadoes and Australian Floods. In 2010, these events included the earthquake that hit Chile in February 2010, the New Zealand earthquake that occurred in September 2010 (2010 New Zealand Earthquake) and large losses related to the explosion and subsequent sinking of the Deepwater Horizon Drilling Platform. A significant amount of judgment was used to estimate the range of potential losses related to the 2010 and the February and June 2011 New Zealand Earthquakes (collectively, the New Zealand Earthquakes) and the Japan Earthquake, and there remains a considerable degree of uncertainty related to the range of possible ultimate losses related to these events and, in particular, the New Zealand Earthquakes. Loss estimates arising 40 Table of Contents from earthquakes are inherently more uncertain than those from other catastrophic events and the Company believes the ultimate losses arising from the New Zealand Earthquakes may be materially in excess of, or less than, the amounts provided for in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2013. The remaining significant risks and uncertainties related to the New Zealand Earthquakes include the ongoing cedant revisions of loss estimates for each of these events, the degree to which inflation impacts construction materials required to rebuild affected properties, the characteristics of the Company’s program participation for certain affected cedants and potentially affected cedants, and the expected length of the claims settlement period. In addition, there is additional complexity related to the New Zealand Earthquakes given multiple earthquakes occurred in the same region in a relatively short period of time, resulting in cedants continuing to revise their allocation of losses between the various events and between different treaties, under which the Company may provide different amounts of coverage. While the Company remains cautious regarding the estimated ultimate losses from the Japan Earthquake, as time has passed the estimates received from the Company’s cedants have stabilized, paid losses have increased and the remaining complexities have reduced. However, there can be no assurance that ultimate losses will not exceed our estimates. We believe, and recent scientific studies have indicated, that the frequency of Atlantic basin hurricanes has increased and may change further in the future relative to the historical experience over the past 100 years. As a result of changing climate conditions, such as global warming, there may be increases in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the losses that result from them. We monitor and adjust, as we believe appropriate, our risk management models to reflect our judgment of how to interpret current developments and information, such as these studies. We believe that factors including increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, particularly along coastal regions, the increasing risk of extreme weather events reflecting changes in climate and ocean temperatures, and the effects of inflation may continue to increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. We could face unanticipated losses from man-made catastrophic events and these or other unanticipated losses could impair our financial condition, reduce our profitability and decrease the market price of our shares. We may have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of terrorism, acts of war, nuclear accidents and political instability, or from other perils. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverage we write, we may continue to have exposure to such unforeseen or unpredictable events. This may be because, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will not limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. It is also difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty, or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. Under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish reserves for potential losses associated with man-made or other catastrophic events until an event that may give rise to such losses occurs. If such an event were to occur, our reported income would decrease in the affected period. In particular, unforeseen large losses could reduce our profitability or impair our financial condition. See Political, regulatory, governmental and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business below for a summary of relevant U.S. federal initiatives regarding supply of commercial insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts in the U.S. 41 Table of Contents Given the inherent uncertainty of models, the usefulness of such models as a tool to evaluate risk is subject to a high degree of uncertainty that could result in actual losses that are materially different than our estimates including probable maximum losses (PMLs), and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. In addition to our own proprietary catastrophe models, we use third party vendor analytic and modeling capabilities to provide us with objective risk assessment relating to other risks in our reinsurance portfolio. We use these models to help us control risk accumulation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and to improve the risk/return profile or minimize the amount of capital required to cover the risks in each reinsurance contract in our overall portfolio of reinsurance contracts. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. For example, catastrophe models that simulate loss estimates based on a set of assumptions are important tools used by us to estimate our PMLs. These assumptions address a number of factors that impact loss potential including, but not limited to, the characteristics of the natural catastrophe event; demand surge resulting from an event; the types, function, location and characteristics of exposed risks; susceptibility of exposed risks to damage from an event with specific characteristics; and the financial and contractual provisions of the (re)insurance contracts that cover losses arising from an event. We run many model simulations in order to understand the impact of these assumptions on its catastrophe loss potential. Furthermore, there are risks associated with catastrophe events, which are either poorly represented or not represented at all by catastrophe models. Each modeling assumption or un-modeled risk introduces uncertainty into PML estimates that management must consider. These uncertainties can include, but are not limited to, the following: • The models do not address all the possible hazard characteristics of a catastrophe peril (e.g. the precise path and wind speed of a hurricane); • The models may not accurately reflect the true frequency of events; • The models may not accurately reflect a risk’s vulnerability or susceptibility to damage for a given event characteristic; • The models may not accurately represent loss potential to insurance or reinsurance contract coverage limits, terms and conditions; and • The models may not accurately reflect the impact on the economy of the area affected or the financial, judicial, political, or regulatory impact on insurance claim payments during or following a catastrophe event. Our PMLs are selected after assessment of multiple third party vendor model output, internally constructed independent models, including the Company’s CatFocus® suite of models, and other qualitative and quantitative assessments by management, including assessments of exposure not typically modeled in vendor or internal models. Our methodology for estimating PMLs may differ from methods used by other companies and external parties given the various assumptions and judgments required to estimate a PML. As a result of these factors and contingencies, our reliance on assumptions and data used to evaluate our entire reinsurance portfolio and specifically to estimate a PML, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty that could result in actual losses that are materially different from our PML estimates and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. Our net income may be volatile because certain products sold by our Life business unit expose us to reserve and fair value liability changes that are directly affected by market and other factors and assumptions. Our pricing, establishment of reserves for future policy benefits and valuation of life insurance and annuity products, including reinsurance programs, are based upon various assumptions, including but not limited to market changes, mortality rates, morbidity rates, and policyholder behavior. The process of establishing reserves 42 Table of Contents for future policy benefits relies on our ability to accurately estimate insured events that have not yet occurred but that are expected to occur in future periods. Significant deviations in actual experience from assumptions used for pricing and for reserves for future policy benefits could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products and our business. Under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees we assumed the risk of guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB). Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of GMDB liabilities. Reported liabilities for GMDB reinsurance are determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in credit markets, changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitant’s account values, and assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior. Significant changes in behavior as a result of policyholder reactions to market or economic conditions could be material. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long-term economic net loss, as well as the short-term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long-term economic risk and reward. For further information see Life Policy Benefits in Item 7 of Part II of this report. If actual losses exceed our estimated loss reserves, our net income and capital position will be reduced. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the contracts that we write. Loss reserves are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given time to reflect our expectation of the costs of the ultimate settlement and administration of claims. Although we use actuarial and computer models as well as historical reinsurance and insurance industry loss statistics, we also rely heavily on management’s experience and judgment to assist in the establishment of appropriate claims and claim expense reserves. Because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Our estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed as new or improved methodologies are developed, as loss trends and claims inflation impact future payments, or as current laws or interpretations thereof change. Estimates of losses are based on, among other things, a review of potentially exposed contracts, information reported by and discussions with counterparties, and our estimate of losses related to those contracts and are subject to change as more information is reported and becomes available. Losses for casualty and liability lines often take a long time to be reported, and frequently can be impacted by lengthy, unpredictable litigation and by the inflation of loss costs over time. Changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. As a consequence, actual losses and loss expenses paid may deviate substantially from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. Although we did not operate prior to 1993, we assumed certain asbestos and environmental exposures through our acquisitions. Our reserves for losses and loss expenses include an estimate of our ultimate liability for asbestos and environmental claims for which we cannot estimate the ultimate value using traditional reserving techniques, and for which there are significant uncertainties in estimating the amount of our potential losses. These liabilities are especially hard to estimate for many reasons, including the long delays between exposure and manifestation of any bodily injury or property damage, difficulty in identifying the source of the asbestos or environmental contamination, long reporting delays and difficulty in properly allocating liability for the asbestos or environmental damage. Certain of our subsidiaries have received and continue to receive notices of potential reinsurance claims from ceding insurance companies, which have in turn received claims asserting asbestos and environmental losses under primary insurance policies, in part reinsured by us. Such claims notices are often precautionary in nature and are generally unspecific, and the primary insurers often do not attempt to 43 Table of Contents quantify the amount, timing or nature of the exposure. Given the lack of specificity in some of these notices, and the legal and tort environment that affects the development of claims reserves, the uncertainties inherent in valuing asbestos and environmental claims are not likely to be resolved in the near future. In addition, the reserves that we have established may be inadequate. If ultimate losses and loss expenses exceed the reserves currently established, we will be required to increase loss reserves in the period in which we identify the deficiency to cover any such claims. As a result, even when losses are identified and reserves are established for any line of business, ultimate losses and loss expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from estimates reflected in loss reserves in our financial statements. Variations between our loss reserve estimates and actual emergence of losses could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Since we rely on a few reinsurance brokers for a large percentage of our business, loss of business provided by these brokers could reduce our premium volume and net income. We produce our business both through brokers and through direct relationships with insurance company clients. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 71% of our gross premiums written were produced through brokers. In 2013, we had two brokers that accounted for 43% of our gross premiums written. Because broker-produced business is concentrated with a small number of brokers, we are exposed to concentration risk. A significant reduction in the business produced by these brokers could potentially reduce our premium volume and net income. We are exposed to credit risk relating to our reinsurance brokers and cedants. In accordance with industry practice, we may pay amounts owed under our policies to brokers, and they in turn pay these amounts to the ceding insurer. In some jurisdictions, if the broker fails to make such an onward payment, we might remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, the ceding insurer may pay premiums to the broker, for onward payment to us in respect of reinsurance policies issued by us. In certain jurisdictions, these premiums are considered to have been paid to us at the time that payment is made to the broker, and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. We may not be able to collect all premiums receivable due from any particular broker at any given time. We also assume credit risk by writing business on a funds withheld basis. Under such arrangements, the cedant retains the premium they would otherwise pay to us to cover future loss payments. If we are significantly downgraded by rating agencies, our standing with brokers and customers could be negatively impacted and may adversely impact our results of operations. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims paying ability and financial strength of insurers and reinsurers, such as the Company’s principal operating subsidiaries. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and have become an important factor in establishing our competitive position in the market. Insured, insurers, ceding insurers and intermediaries use these ratings as one measure by which to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. They are not an evaluation directed to investors in our common shares, preferred shares or debt securities, and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares, preferred shares or debt securities. Our financial strength ratings are subject to periodic review as rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet their criteria for ratings assigned to us by them. Such ratings may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of such ratings agencies in response to a variety of factors, including capital adequacy, management strategy, operating earnings and risk profile. In addition, from time to time one or more rating agencies may effect changes in their capital models and rating methodologies that could have a detrimental impact on our ratings. It is also possible that rating agencies may in the future heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other 44 Table of Contents requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. We can offer no assurances that our ratings will remain at their current levels. Our current financial strength ratings are: Standard & Poor’s A+ Moody’s A1 A.M. Best A+ Fitch AA- If our ratings were significantly downgraded, our competitive position in the reinsurance industry may suffer, and it could result in a reduction in demand for our products. In addition, certain business that we write contains terms that give the ceding company or derivative counterparty the right to terminate cover and/or require collateral if our ratings are downgraded significantly. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, our ability to write new business successfully, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, and our ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders and could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Financial markets in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent times, resulting in part from financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system. Continued disruption in the financial markets may limit our ability to access capital required to operate our business and we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear a higher cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, if we experience a credit rating downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook in the future, we could incur higher borrowing costs and may have more limited means to access capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The exposure of our investments to interest rate, credit and equity risks may limit our net income and may affect the adequacy of our capital. We invest the net premiums we receive unless and until such time as we pay out losses and/or until they are made available for distribution to shareholders and /or otherwise used for general corporate purposes. Investment results comprise a substantial portion of our income. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had net investment income of $484 million, which represented approximately 9% of total revenues. In addition, we recorded realized and unrealized gains on investments during 2013, and we record all realized and unrealized gains or losses through net income. While the Board has implemented what it believes to be prudent risk management and investment asset allocation practices, we are exposed to significant financial and capital market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general and other factors outside our control. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of major economies, inflation, economic and political conditions and other factors outside our control. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect us in two ways. In a declining interest rate environment, we will be required to invest our funds at lower rates, which would have a negative impact on investment income. We may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities. In a rising interest rate environment, the market value of our fixed income portfolio may decline. 45 Table of Contents Our fixed maturity portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment grade securities. However, we invest a portion of the portfolio in securities that are below investment grade, including high yield fixed maturity investments and convertible fixed maturity investments. We also invest a portion of our portfolio in other investments such as fixed income type mutual funds, notes receivable, loans receivable, private placement bond investments, derivative exposure assumed and other specialty asset classes. These securities generally pay a higher rate of interest and have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. We invest a portion of our portfolio in preferred and common stocks or equity-like securities. The value of these assets fluctuates with equity markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income and capital. We use the term equity-like investments to describe our investments that have market risk characteristics similar to equities and are not investment grade fixed maturity securities. This category includes high yield and convertible fixed maturity investments and private placement equity investments. Fluctuations in the fair value of our equity-like investments may reduce our income in any period or year and cause a reduction in our capital. Foreign currency fluctuations may reduce our net income and our capital levels. Through our multinational reinsurance operations, we conduct business in a variety of foreign (non-U.S.) currencies, the principal exposures being the euro, Canadian dollar, British pound, New Zealand dollar, Japanese yen and Australian dollar. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar may materially impact our results and financial position. We employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results or equity may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and the related financial restructuring efforts, which may cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, may magnify these risks. The current state of the global economy and capital markets increases the possibility of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. Economic downturns could impair our investment portfolio and affect the primary insurance market, which could, in turn, harm our operating results and reduce our volume of new business. Global capital markets in the U.S., Europe and other leading markets continue to experience volatility and certain economies remain in recession. Although conditions may be improving, the longer this economic dislocation persists, the greater the probability that these risks could have an adverse effect on our financial results. This may be evidenced in several ways including, but not limited to, a potential reduction in our premium income, financial losses in our investment portfolio and decreases in revenue and net income. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our underwriting activities and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, our cedants and other counterparties may be affected by such developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The global sovereign debt crisis has resulted in financial market restructuring efforts. The impact of these efforts is unclear, however, they may cause a further deterioration in the value of various currencies and consequently exacerbating instability in global credit markets, and increased credit concerns resulting in the widening of bond yield spreads. In addition, recent rating agency downgrades on certain sovereign debt and a possible concern of the potential default of government issuers has contributed to this uncertainty. The impact of these developments, while potentially severe, remains extremely difficult to predict. However, should governments default on their obligations, there will be a negative impact on government and non-government 46 Table of Contents issued bonds, government guaranteed corporate bonds and bonds and equities issued by financial institutions and other financial instruments held within the country of default which in turn could adversely impact assets held in our investment portfolio. We may be adversely impacted by inflation. Recent deficit spending by governments in the Company’s major markets exposes the Company to heightened risk of inflation. We monitor the risk that the principal markets in which we operate could experience increased inflationary conditions, which would, among other things, cause loss costs to increase, and impact the performance of our investment portfolio. Inflation in relation to medical costs, construction costs and tort issues in particular impact the property and casualty industry. The onset, duration and severity of an inflationary period cannot be estimated with precision. The global sovereign debt crisis and the related financial restructuring efforts have, among other factors, made it more difficult to predict the inflationary environment. We may suffer losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, reinsurance and derivative counterparties. Issuers or borrowers whose securities we hold, reinsurers, clearing agents, clearing houses, derivative instrument counterparties and other financial intermediaries may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Even if we are entitled to collateral when a counterparty defaults, such collateral may be illiquid or proceeds from such collateral when liquidated may not be sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. Our investment portfolio may include investment securities in the financial services sector that have recently experienced defaults. All or any of these types of default could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may be adversely affected if Colisée Re, AXA or their affiliates fail to honor their obligations to Paris Re or its clients. As part of the AXA Acquisition, Paris Re entered into the 2006 Acquisition Agreements. See Business—Reserves—Non-life Reserves—Reserve Agreement in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Pursuant to the Quota Share Retrocession Agreement, the benefits and risks of Colisée Re’s reinsurance agreements were ceded to Paris Re France (now PartnerRe Europe), but Colisée Re remains both the legal counterparty for all such reinsurance contracts and the legal holder of the assets relating to such reserves. Under the Run Off Services and Management Agreement, Paris Re France (now PartnerRe Europe) has agreed that AXA LM will manage claims arising from all reinsurance and retrocession contracts subject to the Reserve Agreement. If AXA LM does not take into account Paris Re France’s commercial concerns in the context of Paris Re France’s on-going business relations with the relevant ceding companies and retrocessionaires, our ability to renew reinsurance and retrocession contracts with them may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our business activities, financial condition, results or future prospects may not be adversely affected in spite of the existence of the 2006 Acquisition Agreements. In general, if AXA or its affiliates breach or do not satisfy their obligations under the 2006 Acquisition Agreements (potentially as a result of insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of the 2006 Acquisition Agreements), we could be materially adversely affected. 47 Table of Contents Our debt, credit and International Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) agreements may limit our financial and operational flexibility, which may affect our ability to conduct our business. We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Additionally, we have entered into credit facilities and ISDA agreements with various institutions. Under these credit facilities, the institutions provide revolving lines of credit to us and our major operating subsidiaries and issue letters of credit to our clients in the ordinary course of business. The agreements relating to our debt, credit facilities and ISDA agreements contain various covenants that may limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. Some of these agreements also require us to maintain specified ratings and financial ratios, including a minimum net worth covenant. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet required financial ratios, the lenders or counterparties under these agreements could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. If we are in default under the terms of these agreements, then we would also be restricted in our ability to declare or pay any dividends, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares or make a liquidation payment. If any one of the financial institutions that we use in our operations, including those that participate in our credit facilities, fails or is otherwise unable to meet their commitments, we could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity. We maintain cash balances significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at various depository institutions. We also have funding commitments from a number of banks and financial institutions that participate in our credit facilities. See Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facilities. Access to funds under these existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding requirements. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding requirements if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time, and we might be forced to replace credit sources in a difficult market. There have also been recent consolidations in the banking industry which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to a limited number of institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate financing or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), may require considerable additional expense to comply, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may be significant. The impact may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income, and may affect our financial position, including among other things, the calculation of unpaid losses and loss expenses, policy benefits for life and annuity contracts and total shareholders’ equity. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value” based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from many sources including fraud, errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or information technology failures. 48 Table of Contents We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business and reputation. Moreover, our technology and applications have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. Such technology is and will continue to be a very important part of our underwriting process. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable service providers, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. In addition, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these service providers or consultants without slowing our underwriting response time. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, a loss or delay of revenues or increased expense. Cybersecurity events could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. We are dependent upon the effective functioning and availability of our information technology and application systems platforms. These platforms include, but are not limited to, our proprietary software programs such as catastrophe models as well as those licensed from third-party vendors including analytic and modeling systems. We rely on the security of such platforms for the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential information. Examples of significant cybersecurity events are unauthorized access, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code or cyber-attack, catastrophic events, system failures and disruptions and other events that could have security consequences (each, Cybersecurity Event). A Cybersecurity Event could materially impact our ability to adequately price products and services, establish reserves, provide efficient and secure services to our clients, brokers, vendors, regulators and Board of Directors, value our investments and to timely and accurately report our financial results. Although we have implemented controls and have taken protective measures to reduce the risk of Cybersecurity Events, we cannot reasonably anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks and such measures may be insufficient to prevent a Cybersecurity Event. Cybersecurity Events could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of our information, litigation, reputational damage, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, fines, penalties or losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities. The loss of key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, partly upon our ability to attract and retain executive officers. If any of these executives ceased to continue in his or her present role, we could be adversely affected. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. Our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract and retain a staff of qualified executive officers, underwriters and other key personnel. The skills, experience and knowledge of the reinsurance industry of our management team constitute important competitive strengths. If some or all of these managers leave their positions, and even if we were able to find persons with suitable skills to replace them, our operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability is affected by the cyclical nature of the reinsurance industry. Historically, the reinsurance industry has experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, levels of available capacity, trends in cash flows and losses, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers, including 49 Table of Contents catastrophe losses, and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related directly to prevailing prices and levels of capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being realized in the reinsurance industry. If any of these factors were to result in a decline in the demand for reinsurance or an overall increase in reinsurance capacity, our profitability could be impacted. In recent years, we have experienced a generally softening market cycle, with increased competition, surplus underwriting capacity, deteriorating rates and less favorable terms and conditions all having an impact on our ability to write business. Currently, the Company is facing a challenging and limited growth environment, which is driven by price decreases in most markets and lines of business, reflecting increased competition and excess capacity in the industry, relatively low loss experience and a prolonged period of low interest rates, which has impacted our investment portfolio. In addition, we may experience increased competition as a result of the consolidation in the (re)insurance industry. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. We anticipate that competition and pricing pressure may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations in future periods, and the impact may be material. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive and we compete with a number of worldwide reinsurance companies, including, but not limited to, Munich Re, Swiss Re, Everest Re, Hannover Re, SCOR and reinsurance and insurance operations of certain primary insurance companies, such as ACE, Arch Capital, Axis Capital and XL Group. The lack of strong barriers to entry into the reinsurance business means that we also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, we may experience increased competition as a result of the consolidation in the (re)insurance industry. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. Competition in the types of reinsurance and insurance that we underwrite is based on many factors, including the perceived and relative financial strength, pricing and other terms and conditions, services provided, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment, geographic scope of business, client and broker relationships, reputation and experience in the lines of business to be written. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. In addition, competition for customers would become more intense and we could incur additional expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. Further, insurance-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance or reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. All of the above factors may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations in future periods, the impact of which may be material, and may adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy as a global diversified reinsurance and specialty insurance company. Legal and Regulatory Risks Political, regulatory, governmental and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. Our reinsurance operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental and non-governmental self-regulatory authorities and associations in each of their respective jurisdictions and internationally. Our businesses in each jurisdiction are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and 50 Table of Contents reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity; various solvency standards; and periodic examinations of subsidiaries’ financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds. As a result of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities regularly consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory authority in new and more robust ways, and new regulators could become authorized to oversee parts of our business. For example, the European Union’s Solvency II initiative (see below Solvency II could adversely impact our financial results and operations) and the NAIC’s Solvency Modernization Initiative include meaningful changes in consolidated supervision and corporate governance requirements as they apply to insurance and reinsurance corporate groups, which could lead to increases in regulatory capital requirements, reduced operational flexibility and increased compliance costs. We cannot predict what regulations will finally be adopted. In addition, in 2010 the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) introduced a concept paper promoting a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (IAIGs). Through the common framework, still in its development phase, the IAIS aims to: (i) develop methods of operating group-wide supervision of IAIGs, (ii) establish a comprehensive framework for supervisors to address group-wide activities and risks and also set grounds for better supervisory cooperation, and (iii) foster global convergence of regulatory and supervisory measures and approaches. In addition, in October 2013 the IAIS announced its plan to include a risk-based global insurance capital standard within its common framework by 2016. Furthermore, the IAIS has developed policy measures for institutions it designates as globally systemically important insurers (G-SIIs), including enhanced supervision standards, measures to facilitate resolution, and capital requirements to increase loss absorption capacity. The IAIS has announced that it will decide in 2014 on potential designation of major reinsurers as G-SIIs. It is not possible to predict all future impacts of these types of changes but they could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, any of which, in turn, could affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our material subsidiaries’ regulatory environments are described in detail under the heading Business—Regulation. Regulations relating to each of our material subsidiaries may in effect restrict each of those subsidiaries’ ability to write new business, to make certain investments and to distribute funds or assets to us. Recent government intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other interested parties, including shareholders of reinsurers. We believe it is likely there will continue to be increased regulation of, and other forms of government participation in, our industry in the future, which could adversely affect our business by, among other things: • Providing reinsurance capacity in markets and to clients that we target or requiring our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • Further restricting our operational or capital flexibility; • Expanding the scope of coverage under existing policies; • Regulating the terms of reinsurance policies; or • Disproportionately benefiting the companies domiciled in one country over those domiciled in another. Such a U.S. federal initiative was put forward in response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11th tragedy, and consequently the TRIA was enacted to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts 51 Table of Contents in the U.S. In December 2007, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA) was enacted, which further renewed TRIA for another 7 years ending December 31, 2014. This law established a federal program to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. We cannot provide assurance that TRIPRA will be extended beyond 2014, and its expiration or a significant change in terms could have an adverse effect on us, our clients or the insurance industry. Such a state initiative in the U.S. was put forward by the Florida Legislature in response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets in Florida resulting from, among other things, hurricane damage in Florida, which enacted the Hurricane Preparedness and Insurance Act to ensure the availability of catastrophe insurance coverage for catastrophes in the state of Florida. More recent legislative proposals would limit the reinsurance coverage available from the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund and limit exposure to assessments from the state-run Citizens Property Insurance Company. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may result in unexpected claim frequency and severity and delays or cancellations of products and services we provide, which could adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict the effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have on such markets generally or on the Company in particular. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. federal government, the European Central Bank and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the governance of those industries that are viewed as presenting a systemic risk to economic stability. Such actions include the International Monetary Fund’s proposal to levy a financial stability tax on all financial institutions, the proposals for enhanced regulation and supervision contained in the most recently published Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) paper on the impact of the financial crisis on the Insurance sector and the financial regulatory reform provisions contained within the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). Measures taken in Europe include the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), as well as the proposed revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and the proposed new Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR). We are unable to predict the effect that the enactment of any such proposals will have on the financial markets generally or on the Company’s competitive position, business and financial condition in particular, though we are monitoring these and similar proposals as they evolve. The Dodd-Frank Act and other U.S. regulatory changes may adversely impact our business. The U.S. Congress and the current administration have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues with respect to financial regulation reform, including regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, the establishment of a single-state system of licensure for U.S. and foreign reinsurers, further regulation of executive compensation and others. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law by the President of the U.S. on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. and establishes a Federal Insurance Office under the U.S. Treasury Department. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance or reinsurance, it is charged with monitoring all aspects of the insurance industry, consulting with state insurance regulators, assisting in administration of the TRIA, and other duties. The Federal Insurance Office is also responsible for issuing certain reports to Congress such as a December 2013 report which recommended limited federal regulatory involvement in areas such as the development of a uniform agreement on reinsurance collateral requirements, as well as an upcoming report on the role of the global reinsurance market in supporting insurance in the U.S. Furthermore, the director of the Federal Insurance Office may recommend that the multi-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) subject an insurance company or an insurance holding company to heightened prudential 52 Table of Contents standards following an extended designation process, and FSOC itself may make such designations. Proposed U.S. regulatory changes outside the scope of the Dodd-Frank Act include legislation to repeal the insurance company exemption from certain U.S. federal antitrust laws, which has been introduced in the past. It is not possible to predict whether this or similar legislation may be enacted in the future. Compliance with these new laws and regulations may result in additional costs which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. However, at this time, it is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty whether any other proposed legislation, rules or regulatory changes will be adopted or what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank Act or any other such legislation, rules or changes could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Solvency II could adversely impact our financial results and operations. Solvency II, a European Union directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, was adopted by the European Parliament and the European Council in April of 2009 and may adversely affect our reinsurance businesses. The implementation of Solvency II by the European Commission will replace current solvency requirements and is scheduled to take effect January 1, 2016. Solvency II adopts a risk-based approach to insurance regulation. Its principal goals are to improve the correlation between capital and risk, effect group supervision of insurance and reinsurance affiliates, implement a uniform capital adequacy structure for insurers across the European Union Member States, establish consistent corporate governance standards for insurance and reinsurance companies, and establish transparency through standard reporting of insurance operations. Implementation of Solvency II will require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. The measures implementing Solvency II have not been finalized and may be subject to change; consequently, our implementation plans, which are based on our current understanding of the Solvency II requirements, may need to change. The current uncertainty as to timing and requirements may add to the cost of compliance. The European Union is in the process of considering the Solvency II equivalence of Bermuda’s insurance regulatory and supervisory regime. The European Union equivalence assessment considers whether Bermuda’s regulatory regime provides a similar level of policyholder protection as provided under Solvency II. A finding that Bermuda’s insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent to the European Union’s Solvency II could have an adverse effect on the cost of PartnerRe Bermuda’s European business due to the potential of having to post collateral. It would not affect PartnerRe Europe’s ability to operate in Europe. Such a finding could also have adverse indirect commercial impacts on our operations. An interim assessment has determined that the Bermuda regime applicable to Class 3A, 3B and 4 Companies is equivalent with certain caveats, but a final determination is yet to be made and it is not known when a final determination will be made. In addition, European policymakers have recently drafted a set of criteria by which the European Commission will be able to assess unilaterally whether the solvency regime of a third country such as Bermuda is broadly equivalent to Solvency II. If Bermuda is considered broadly equivalent then it could be granted “provisional equivalence” to Solvency II for a period of 10 years with the possibility that such period could be extended. We are monitoring the ongoing legislative and regulatory steps associated with the adoption of Solvency II and the equivalence system, as well as other standards such as the IAIS’s planned risk-based global insurance capital standard. The principles, standards and requirements of Solvency II may also, directly or indirectly through its impact on other market participants, including ceding insurers, impact the future supervision of additional operating subsidiaries of ours. Legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could increase the costs or administrative burdens of providing benefits to our employees or hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining employees, or affect our profitability as a provider of accident and health insurance benefit products. We derive revenues from the provision of accident and health premiums in the U.S., that is, providing insurance to institutions that participate in the U.S. healthcare delivery infrastructure. Changes in U.S. healthcare legislation, specifically the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “Healthcare Act”), have made significant changes to the regulation of health insurance and may negatively affect our healthcare liability 53 Table of Contents business including, but not limited to, the healthcare delivery system and the healthcare cost reimbursement structure in the U.S. In addition, the Company may be subject to regulations, guidance or determinations emanating from the various regulatory authorities authorized under the Healthcare Act. It is difficult to predict the effect that the Healthcare Act, or any regulatory pronouncement made thereunder, will have on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, future healthcare proposals could include tort reform provisions under which plaintiffs would be restricted in their ability to bring suit against healthcare providers, which could negatively impact the demand for our healthcare liability products. Any material changes in how healthcare providers insure their malpractice liability risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Legal and enforcement activities relating to the insurance industry could affect our business and our industry. The insurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of litigation, investigations and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the accounting treatment for finite reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance and reinsurance products. These investigations have resulted in changes in the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices. While at this time, none of these changes have caused an adverse effect on our business, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that future investigations may have upon our industry. As noted above, because we frequently assume the credit risk of the counterparties with whom we do business throughout our insurance and reinsurance operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the credit quality of these counterparties is severely impacted by investigations in the insurance industry or by changes to industry practices. Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business. Unanticipated developments in the law, as well as changes in social and environmental conditions could potentially result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance, reinsurance and other contracts. These developments and changes may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. With respect to our casualty businesses, these legal, social and environmental changes may not become apparent until sometime after their occurrence. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by an increase in insurance and reinsurance contract disputes, arbitration and litigation. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages, and in particular, our casualty reinsurance contracts, may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may result in unexpected claim frequency and severity and delays or cancellations of products and services we provide, which could adversely affect our business. Investors may encounter difficulties in service of process and enforcement of judgments against us in the United States. We are a Bermuda company and some of our directors and officers are residents of various jurisdictions outside the U.S. All, or a substantial portion, of the assets of our officers and directors and of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Although we have appointed an agent and irrevocably agreed that the agent may be served with process in New York with respect to actions against us arising out of violations of the U.S. Federal securities laws in any Federal or state court in the U.S., it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. It could also be difficult for investors to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of a U.S. court predicated upon civil liability provisions of U.S. Federal securities laws. 54 Table of Contents There is no treaty in force between the U.S. and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a U.S. judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. Federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda law and not U.S. law. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, Bermuda courts will not enforce a U.S. Federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity will not be entered by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. Federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim can be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. Federal securities laws because these laws have no extra jurisdictional effect under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Our international business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to sanctions and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable economic sanctions and anti-bribery laws and regulations of the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate, including the U.K. and the European Community. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us include the economic trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control as well as certain laws administered by the United States Department of State. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act that generally bar corrupt payments or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an employee or intermediary could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. In such event, we could be exposed to civil penalties, criminal penalties and other sanctions, including fines or other punitive actions. In addition, such violations could damage our business and/or our reputation. Such criminal or civil sanctions, penalties, other sanctions, and damage to our business and/or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares and Preferred Shares We are a holding company, and if our subsidiaries do not make dividend and other payments to us, we may not be able to pay dividends or make payments on our common and preferred shares and other obligations. We are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries and other intercompany balances. We have cash outflows in the form of operating expenses, dividends to both common and preferred shareholders and, from time to time, cash outflows for the repurchase of common shares under our share repurchase program. We rely primarily on cash dividends and payments from our subsidiaries to meet our cash outflows. We expect future dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to be the principal source of funds to pay expenses and dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In particular, the payment of dividends by our reinsurance subsidiaries is limited under Bermuda and Irish laws and certain statutes of various U.S. states in which our U.S. subsidiaries are licensed to transact business and include minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. As of 55 Table of Contents December 31, 2013, there were no significant restrictions on the payment of dividends by the Company’s subsidiaries that would limit the Company’s ability to pay common and preferred shareholders’ dividends and its corporate expenses. Because we are a holding company, our right, and hence the right of our creditors and shareholders, to participate in any distribution of assets of any subsidiary of ours, upon our liquidation or reorganization or otherwise, is subject to the prior claims of policyholders and creditors of these subsidiaries. Provisions in our bye-laws may restrict the voting rights of our shares and may restrict the transferability of our shares. Our bye-laws generally provide that if any person owns, directly, indirectly or by attribution, more than 9.9% of the total combined voting power of our shares entitled to vote, the voting rights attached to such shares will be reduced so that such person may not exercise and is not attributed more than 9.9% of the total combined voting power. In addition, our board of directors may limit a shareholder’s exercise of voting rights where it deems it necessary to do so to avoid non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders. Under our bye-laws, subject to waiver by our board of directors, no transfer of our shares is permitted if such transfer would result in a shareholder controlling more than 9.9% determined by value or by voting power of our outstanding shares. Our bye-laws also provide that if our board of directors determines that share ownership by a person may result in (i) shareholder owning directly, indirectly or by retribution, more than 9.9% of the total combined voting power of our shares entitled to vote, or (ii) any non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders, then we have the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to us for fair market value the minimum number of shares held by such person which is necessary so that after such purchase such shareholder will not own more than 9.9% of the total combined voting power, or is necessary to eliminate the non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be limited pursuant to our bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to timely respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate or reduce the shareholder’s voting rights. Taxation Risks Changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected in the future by net income being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have a relatively lower statutory tax rate and net income being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have a relatively higher statutory tax rate, or by changes in corporate tax rates and tax regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to regular audit by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Any adverse outcome of such an audit could have an adverse effect on our net income, effective income tax rate and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provisions for income taxes requires significant judgment, and the ultimate tax determination related to certain positions taken is uncertain. Although we believe our provisions are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our net income and effective income tax rate in the period such determination is made. 56 Table of Contents If our non-U.S. operations become subject to U.S. income taxation, our net income will decrease. We believe that we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries (other than business sourced by PartnerRe Europe through PartnerRe Miami and PartnerRe Connecticut) have operated, and will continue to operate, our respective businesses in a manner that will not cause us to be viewed as engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. and, on this basis, we do not expect that either we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be required to pay U.S. corporate income taxes (other than potential withholding taxes on certain types of U.S. source passive income) or branch profits taxes. Because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S., the IRS may contend that either we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. In addition, legislation regarding the scope of non-U.S. entities and operations subject to U.S. income tax has been proposed in the past, and may be proposed again in the future. If either we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income tax, our shareholders’ equity and net income will be reduced by the amount of such taxes, which might be material. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has published reports and launched a global initiative among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Bermuda was not listed in the most recent report as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices, to embrace international tax standards for transparency, to exchange information and to eliminate an environment that attracts business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. If proposed U.S. legislation is passed, our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary may be subject to higher U.S. taxation and our net income would decrease. Currently, our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary retrocedes or may retrocede a portion of its U.S. business to our non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries and is generally entitled to deductions for premiums paid for such retrocessions. Proposed legislation has been introduced that if enacted would impose a limitation on such deductions, which could result in increased U.S. tax on this business and decreased net income. It is not possible to predict whether this or similar legislation may be enacted in the future. In addition, it is possible that other legislative proposals could be introduced in the future that could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 