ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this document, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis, may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are made based upon Management’s assumptions and expectations concerning the potential effect of future events on the Company’s financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to significant business, economic and competitive risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. PartnerRe’s forward-looking statements could be affected by numerous foreseeable and unforeseeable events and developments that may affect our Company directly or indirectly through our industry. As used in these Risk Factors, the terms “we”, “our” or “us” may, depending upon the context, refer the Company, to one or more of Company’s consolidated subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a whole. The following review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The words believe, anticipate, estimate, project, plan, expect, intend, hope, forecast, evaluate, will likely result or will continue or words of similar impact generally involve forward-looking statements. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Uncertainty related to estimated losses and unanticipated losses from catastrophic events may materially and negatively impact our business and results of operations Our ultimate liability for recent weather-related losses is subject to significant uncertainty. On February 6, 2006, we announced losses for 2005 relating to the Gulf Coast hurricane Katrina, Rita and Wilma, European winterstorm Erwin and the flooding in Central Europe, adjusted for reinstatement premiums, of approximately $900 million on a pre-tax basis. This includes estimated claims of approximately $511 million relating to hurricane Katrina, approximately $88 million relating to hurricane Rita, approximately $174 million related to hurricane Wilma, approximately $61 million on European winterstorm Erwin and approximately $66 million for the flooding in Central Europe. Total shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2005 was $3,093 million, representing a decrease of approximately 8% percent from the $3,352 million reported at December 31, 2004. Current estimates for losses relating to hurricane Katrina, Rita and Wilma, European winterstorm Erwin and the flooding in Central Europe are based mainly on loss indications from brokers, clients and public announcements to date, current industry loss estimates, output from industry and proprietary models and a review of in-force contracts. Our actual losses may vary materially from our estimated losses. In addition, our estimated losses as a result of hurricane Katrina are subject to a further level of uncertainty arising out of these losses’ extremely complex and unique causation and related coverage issues associated with the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils such as fire, business interruption or riot and civil commotion. For example, many of our clients’ underlying policies exclude flood damage; however, water damage directly related to wind damage may be covered. We expect that these issues will not be resolved for a considerable period of time and may be influenced by evolving legal and regulatory developments. Our actual losses from hurricane Katrina, Rita and Wilma, European winterstorm Erwin and the flooding in Central Europe may exceed our estimated losses as a result of, among other things, the receipt of additional information from clients, brokers 16 Table of Contents and loss adjusters, the attribution of losses to coverages that, for the purpose of our estimates, we assumed would not be exposed and to a lesser extent an increase in current industry loss estimates, and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials, in which case our financial results could be further materially adversely affected. If actual losses exceed our estimated loss reserves our net income will be reduced. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the contracts that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Loss reserves are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given time to reflect our expectations of the costs of the ultimate settlement and administration of claims. Losses for short-tail business, which include, but are not limited to, most types of catastrophe, property, motor, physical damage, aviation hull, and marine losses, tend to be reported promptly and settled within a short period of time, barring unusual circumstances such as those relating to hurricane Katrina losses as described above. However, losses for casualty and liability lines, which business we are currently growing, often take longer to discover, and frequently can be impacted by lengthy, unpredictable litigation and by the inflation of loss costs over time. We expect our casualty business to produce claims that frequently will be resolved only through lengthy and unpredictable litigation. The measures required to resolve such claims, including the adjudication process, present more reserve challenges than property-related losses (which tend to be reported more promptly than casualty claims and to be settled more often within a relatively shorter period of time). As a consequence of litigation in all of our lines of business, actual claims and claim expenses paid may substantially deviate from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. As a result, even when losses are identified and reserves are established for any line of business, ultimate losses and loss expenses (that is, the administrative costs of managing and settling claims) paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from estimates reflected in loss reserves in our financial statements. If our loss reserves for business written are inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves in the period in which we identify the deficiency. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities, a reduction in our profitability and a reduction of capital. Under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish loss reserves with respect to our catastrophe reinsurance until an event that may give rise to a claim occurs. Although we did not operate prior to 1993, we assumed certain asbestos and environmental exposures through our acquisitions. Our reserves for losses and loss expenses include an estimate of our ultimate liability for asbestos and environmental claims for which we cannot estimate the ultimate value using traditional reserving techniques, and for which there are significant uncertainties in estimating the amount of our potential losses. We and certain of our subsidiaries have received and continue to receive notices of potential reinsurance claims from ceding insurance companies which have in turn received claims asserting asbestos and environmental losses under primary insurance policies, in part reinsured by us. Such claims notices are often precautionary in nature and generally are unspecific, and the primary insurers often do not attempt to quantify the amount, timing or nature of the exposure. Given the lack of specificity in some of these notices, and the legal and tort environment that affects the development of claims reserves, the uncertainties inherent in valuing asbestos and environmental claims are not likely to be resolved in the near future. In addition, the reserves that we have established may be inadequate. If ultimate losses and loss expenses exceed the reserves currently established, we will be required to increase loss reserves in the period in which the deficiency is identified to cover any such claims. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities, a reduction in our profitability and a reduction of capital. We could face unanticipated losses from man-made catastrophic events and these or other unanticipated losses could impair our financial condition, reduce our profitability and decrease the market price of our shares. We may have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of terrorism, acts of war and political instability, or from other perils. Although we may exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverage we write, we may continue to have exposure to such unforeseen or unpredictable events. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. Under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish reserves for potential losses associated with man-made or other catastrophic events until an event that may give rise to such losses occurs. If such an event were to occur, our reported income would decrease in the affected period. In particular, unforeseen large losses could reduce our profitability or impair our financial condition. Over time, if the severity and frequency of these events remains higher than in the past, it may impact our ability to write future business. 17 Table of Contents The volatility of the business that we underwrite may result in volatility of our earnings and limit our ability to write future business. Catastrophe reinsurance comprises approximately 11% of our net premiums written. Catastrophe losses result from events such as windstorms, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, hail, tornadoes, severe winter weather, fires, explosions and other man-made or natural disasters, the incidence and severity of which are inherently unpredictable. Because catastrophe reinsurance accumulates large aggregate exposures to man-made and natural disasters, our loss experience in this line of business could be characterized as low frequency and high severity, particularly since we usually provide reinsurance that pays only after the primary insurer has experienced a specified level of loss, which tends to reduce our exposure to higher-frequency, lower-severity losses. This is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and may create downward pressure on the market price of our common shares and limit our ability to make dividend payments and payments on our debt securities. We write other lines of business that can be affected by large losses, including property, agriculture, motor, casualty, marine, aviation/space, credit/surety, other lines, life/annuity and health. The Company also provides derivative and insurance/reinsurance solutions for complex financial risks that can also result in large losses. Major loss events we have experienced in the last four years include losses of $120 million from the European floods in 2002, $176 million from the Atlantic hurricanes and the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, and $900 million from hurricane Katrina, Rita and Wilma, European winterstorm Erwin and the flooding in Central Europe in 2005. We endeavor to manage our exposure to catastrophe and other large losses by: • attempting to limit our aggregate exposure on catastrophe reinsurance in any particular geographic zone defined by us and attempting to limit our exposure to per risk reinsurance, • selective underwriting practices, • diversification of risks by geographic area and by lines and classes of business, and • to a certain extent by purchasing retrocessional reinsurance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the effect of a single catastrophic event or series of events affecting one or more geographic zones, or changes in the relative frequency or severity of catastrophic or other large loss events, could reduce our earnings and limit the funds available to make payments on future claims. The effect of an increase in frequency of mid-size losses in any one reporting period affecting one or more geographic zones, such as an unusual level of hurricane activity, could also reduce our earnings. Should we incur one or more substantial catastrophe losses, our ability to write future business may be adversely impacted. Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business. Unanticipated developments in the law as well as changes in social and environmental conditions could potentially result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance, reinsurance and other contracts. These developments and changes may materially adversely affect us. For example, we could be subject to developments that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. With respect to our casualty businesses, these legal, social and environmental changes may not become apparent until some time after their occurrence. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by an increase in insurance and reinsurance contract disputes, arbitration, and litigation. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages, and in particular our casualty reinsurance contracts, may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting participants in the property-liability insurance industry in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices. Since we rely on a few reinsurance brokers for a large percentage of our business, loss of business provided by these brokers could reduce our premium volume and net income. We produce our business both through brokers and through direct relationships with insurance company clients. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 63% of gross premiums were produced through brokers. In 2005, we had one broker that accounted for 10% or more of our gross premiums written. This broker accounted for 16% of gross premiums written. Because broker-produced business is concentrated with a small number of brokers, we are exposed to concentration risk. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business produced by significant brokers could significantly reduce our premium volume and net income. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to credit risk relating to our reinsurance brokers and cedants and other counterparties. In accordance with industry practice, we may pay amounts owed under our policies to brokers, and they in turn pay these amounts to the ceding insurer. In some jurisdictions, if the broker fails to make such an onward payment, we might remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, the ceding insurer will pay premiums to the broker, for onward payment to us in respect of reinsurance policies issued by us. In certain jurisdictions, these premiums are considered to have been paid to us at the time that payment is made to the broker, and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. We may not be able to collect all premiums receivable due from any particular broker at any given time. We also assume credit risk by writing business on a funds withheld basis. Under such arrangements, the cedant retains the premium they would otherwise pay to the reinsurer to cover future loss payments. In addition, we may be exposed to credit risk from transactions involving banks or derivative counterparties and the credit risk of reinsurers from whom we may purchase retrocessional reinsurance. If we are downgraded by rating agencies, our standing with brokers and customers could be negatively impacted and our premiums and earnings could decrease. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims paying ability and financial strength of insurers and reinsurers, such as the Company’s subsidiaries, Partner Reinsurance, PartnerRe U.S. and PartnerRe SA. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies, and the rating agencies will periodically evaluate our reinsurance operations to determine if we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings that have been assigned to us. The claims-paying ability ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance or insurance companies are based upon factors and criteria established independently by each rating agency, and are not an evaluation directed to investors in our common shares, preferred shares or debt securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares, preferred shares or debt securities. Rating agencies may downgrade or withdraw their ratings in the future if we do not continue to meet the then current criteria for the ratings previously assigned to us. Such criteria may change, perhaps significantly, at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. If our ratings were significantly downgraded, our competitive position in the reinsurance industry may suffer, and it may be more difficult for us to market our products. Certain business that we write contains terms that give the ceding company or derivative counterparties the right to terminate cover and/or require collateral if our ratings are downgraded. A significant downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of reinsurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business as client companies, and brokers that place their business, move to other competitors with higher ratings. The exposure of our investments to interest rate, credit and market risks may limit our net investment income and net income. We invest the net premiums we receive until such time as we pay out losses. Investment results comprise a substantial portion of our income. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had net investment income of $365 million, which represented approximately 9% of total revenues. While our Management has implemented what it believes to be prudent risk management and investment asset allocation practices, we are exposed to interest rate risk, credit and default risk, liquidity risk and market volatility. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect us in two ways. In a declining interest rate environment, we will be required to invest our funds at lower rates, which would have a negative impact on investment income. In a rising interest rate environment, the market value of our fixed income portfolio may decline, thereby reducing our capital and potentially affecting our ability to write business. Our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, we invest a smaller portion of the portfolio in below investment-grade securities, including high yield bonds, bank loans, and convertible bonds. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income and capital. We invest a portion of our portfolio in common stock or equity-related securities. The value of these assets fluctuates with equity markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income and capital. Convertible bonds have both a debt and an equity component due to the option to convert the fixed income security to an equity form. Therefore, convertible bonds have both credit and interest rate risk as described above as well as equity volatility risk. 19 Table of Contents We also invest in alternative investments, which have different risk characteristics than traditional equity and fixed maturity securities. These alternative investments include hedge fund investments and private equity partnerships. Our percentage allocation to these alternative investments, which at December 31, 2005 was approximately one percent of our total investment portfolio, may increase. Fluctuations in interest rates and exposure to losses in the fixed income and equity portfolios or in our alternative investments may reduce our income in any period or year or cause a significant reduction in our capital. Foreign currency fluctuations may reduce our operating results and our capital levels. Through our multinational reinsurance operations, we conduct business in a variety of foreign (non-U.S.) currencies, the principal exposures being the euro, the British pound, the Swiss franc, the Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar may materially impact our results and financial position. We employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results and level of capital may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our credit and International Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) agreements may limit our financial and operational flexibility which may affect our ability to conduct our business. We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Additionally, we have entered into credit facilities and ISDA agreements with various institutions. Under these credit facilities, the institutions provide revolving lines of credit to us and our major operating subsidiaries and issue letters of credit to our clients in the ordinary course of business. The agreements relating to our debt, credit facilities and ISDA agreements contain various covenants that may limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. Some of these agreements also require us to maintain specified ratings and financial ratios, including a minimum net worth covenant. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet required financial ratios, the lenders or counterparties under these agreements could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. If we are in default under the terms of these agreements, then we would also be restricted in our ability to declare or pay any dividends, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares and make a liquidation payment with respect thereto. If our non-U.S. operations become subject to U.S. taxation, our net income and cash flows will decrease. We believe that we, Partner Reinsurance and PartnerRe SA have operated, and will continue to operate, our respective businesses in a manner that will not cause us to be viewed as engaged in a trade or business in the United States and, on this basis, do not expect that we, Partner Reinsurance or PartnerRe SA will be required to pay U.S. corporate income taxes (other than potential withholding taxes on certain types of U.S.-source passive income). Because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may contend that we, Partner Reinsurance or PartnerRe SA are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If we, Partner Reinsurance or PartnerRe SA are subject to U.S. income tax, our shareholders’ equity and earnings will be reduced by the amount of such taxes, which could be material. Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S., PartnerRe Insurance Company of New York, PartnerRe Asset Management and PartnerRe New Solutions Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of PartnerRe U.S. Corporation, conduct business in the United States and are subject to U.S. corporate income taxes. We are a holding company and, if our subsidiaries do not make dividend and other payments to us, we may not be able to pay dividends or make payments on our debt securities and other obligations. We are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely primarily on cash dividends and payments from Partner Reinsurance, PartnerRe SA and PartnerRe U.S. to pay the operating 20 Table of Contents expenses, shareholder dividends, interest expense and other obligations of the holding company that may arise from time to time. We expect future dividends and other permitted payments from these subsidiaries to be our principal source of funds to pay expenses and dividends. The payment of dividends by our reinsurance subsidiaries to us is limited under Bermuda and French laws and certain insurance statutes of various U.S. states in which PartnerRe U.S. is licensed to transact business. Our reinsurance subsidiaries may not always be able to, or may not, pay dividends to us sufficient to pay our operating expenses, shareholder dividends, interest expense or our other obligations. The payment of dividends by Partner Reinsurance to us is limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Under the Insurance Act 1978 and amendments thereto, including the Insurance Amendment Act 1995, and related regulations, Partner Reinsurance is prohibited from paying dividends in any one calendar year of more than 25% of its statutory capital and surplus as of the beginning of such year, unless it files an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio requirements, and from declaring or paying any dividends without the approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority if it failed to meet its required margins in the previous fiscal year. The Insurance Act requires Partner Reinsurance to maintain a minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio and prohibits dividends that would result in a breach of these requirements. In addition, Partner Reinsurance is prohibited under the Insurance Act from reducing its statutory capital as of the beginning of any year by more than 15% in any one year without the approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority. PartnerRe SA’s ability to pay dividends is subject to French laws and regulations governing French companies generally. Although PartnerRe SA’s ability to pay dividends to us is not restricted under current French laws and regulations specifically applicable to reinsurers, the amount of cash dividends that may be paid in any twelve-month period is generally limited to the net after-tax profits (determined under French accounting and tax rules) generated in that twelve-month period. PartnerRe U.S. may generally pay cash dividends only out of earned statutory surplus. Currently, PartnerRe U.S. has negative earned surplus and therefore cannot pay dividends without prior regulatory approval. Because we are a holding company, our right, and hence the right of our creditors and shareholders, to participate in any distribution of assets of any subsidiary of ours, upon our liquidation or reorganization or otherwise, is subject to the prior claims of policyholders and creditors of these subsidiaries. We have imposed various limitations on voting and ownership of our shares, which will limit the ability of investors to acquire more than a certain percentage of our voting shares. The anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws may discourage takeover attempts. Under our bye-laws, subject to waiver by our board of directors, no transfer of our common shares or preferred shares is permitted if such transfer would result in a shareholder controlling more than 9.9% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. Any person controlling more than the specified number of shares will be permitted to dispose of any shares purchased which violate the restriction. If we become aware of such ownership, our bye-laws provide that the voting rights with respect to shares directly or indirectly beneficially or constructively owned by any person so owning more than 9.9% of the voting power of the outstanding shares, including our common shares and preferred shares, will be limited to 9.9% of the voting power. The voting rights with respect to all shares held by such person in excess of the 9.9% limitation will be allocated to the other holders of shares, pro rata based on the number of shares held by all such other holders of shares, subject only to the further limitation that no shareholder allocated any such voting rights may exceed the 9.9% limitation as a result of such allocation. Our bye-laws also contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. These provisions include a classified board of directors, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year, and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging change in management and takeover attempts in the future. Investors may encounter difficulties in service of process and enforcement of judgments against us in the United States. We are a Bermuda company and some of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. All, or a substantial portion, of the assets of our officers and directors and of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have appointed an agent and irrevocably agreed that it may be served with process in New York with respect to actions against us arising out of violations of the United States Federal securities law in any Federal or state court in the United States, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States, or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of a United States court predicated upon civil liability provisions of United States Federal securities laws. 21 Table of Contents There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the United States court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a United States court that is final and for a sum certain based on United States Federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the United States court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not United States) law. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States Federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entered by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including certain remedies under United States Federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim can be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of United States Federal securities laws because these laws have no extra jurisdictional effect under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from fraud, errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or external events. We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business. Moreover, our technology and applications have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, or increased expense. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation actions are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology and application systems, but if such controls and actions are not effective, the adverse effect on our business could be significant. Our profitability is affected by the cyclical nature of the reinsurance industry. Historically, the reinsurance industry has experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, levels of available capacity, trends in cash flows and losses, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers, including catastrophe losses, and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related directly to prevailing prices and levels of capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being realized in the reinsurance industry. If any of these factors were to result in a decline in the demand for reinsurance or an overall increase in reinsurance capacity, our profitability could decrease. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with a number of worldwide reinsurance companies, including, but not limited to, AXA Group, Berkshire Hathaway’s General Re, Employers Re, Everest Re Group Ltd, Hannover Re, Lloyds, Munich Re, Platinum Underwriters, Swiss Re, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and reinsurance operations of certain primary insurance companies, such as ACE Limited, Axis Capital and XL Capital. Competition in the types of reinsurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the reinsurer, pricing charges, other terms and conditions offered, services provided, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines of reinsurance to be written. Some competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources and higher credit ratings than ours. 22 Table of Contents Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. Increasingly, governmental authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide are examining the potential risks posed by the reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful new risks posed by the reinsurance industry to the financial system or to policyholders, and we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulation of our industry in the future. For example, in response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11th tragedy, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA) was enacted to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for terrorist acts in the U.S. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. In December 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (TRIEA) was enacted which renewed the TRIA for another two years. We are currently unable to determine with certainty the impact the TRIEA’s non-renewal would have on us. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require considerable additional expenses to comply, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to the insurance industry, including investigations into contingent commission arrangements and certain finite risk or non-traditional insurance products could affect our business and our industry. Recently, the insurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of current litigation, investigations and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the payment of contingent commissions by insurance companies to insurance brokers and agents and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes and the accounting treatment for finite reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance and reinsurance products. At this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations may have upon the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business. Regulatory constraints may restrict our ability to operate our business. As more fully detailed in Item 1. of Part I of this report under the heading Regulation, our reinsurance operations are carried out through three main subsidiaries, Partner Reinsurance in Bermuda (which also operates branches in Switzerland, Singapore, Hong Kong and Labuan and representative offices in Mexico and Chile), PartnerRe U.S. in Greenwich, Connecticut and PartnerRe SA in Paris. PartnerRe SA also operates a branch in Canada and representative offices in Tokyo and South Korea. In addition, in 2005 we have opened an office in Dublin and have commenced both insurance and reinsurance operations. Thus, our reinsurance operations are subject to certain insurance laws in each of these jurisdictions. Our Bermuda-based reinsurance subsidiary, Partner Reinsurance, is not admitted to do business in the United States. The insurance laws of each state of the United States regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdiction by foreign insurers, such as Partner Reinsurance, which are not admitted to do business within such jurisdiction. Partner Reinsurance does not intend to maintain an office or to solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance or reinsurance activities in any state of the United States where the conduct of such activities would require that Partner Reinsurance be so admitted. Accordingly, Partner Reinsurance does not believe that it is, or will be, in violation of insurance laws of any state in the United States. However, inquiries or challenges relating to the activities of Partner Reinsurance (or our other subsidiaries) may be raised in the future. In addition, Partner Reinsurance’s location, regulatory status or restriction on its activities resulting from its regulatory status may limit its ability to conduct business. In general, the statutes and regulations applicable to Partner Reinsurance are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if it were subject to the insurance laws of any state in the United States. 23 Table of Contents The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including Europe and the United States and various states within the United States. In November 2005, the European Parliament adopted Directive 2005/68/EC, the European Union Reinsurance Directive. This directive seeks to harmonize the supervision of reinsurance business within the European Union by creating a single regulated market and each member state must adopt the directive into local legislation by December 2007. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing laws or regulations on our operations, and any such changes may limit the way we conduct our business. Our main subsidiaries’ regulatory environments are described in detail in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading Regulation. Regulations relating to each of our main subsidiaries may in effect restrict each of those subsidiaries ability to write new business, to make certain investments and to distribute funds or assets to us. Partner Reinsurance is incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and does not maintain a principal office, and intends to conduct its business such that its personnel do not solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other activities to the extent that these activities would constitute the transaction of the business of insurance or reinsurance, in any jurisdiction in which it is not licensed or otherwise not authorized to engage in such activities. Although Partner Reinsurance does not believe it is or will be in violation of insurance laws or regulations of Bermuda and of any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, inquiries or challenges to Partner Reinsurance’s insurance or reinsurance activities may still be raised in the future. Partner Reinsurance operates a branch in Switzerland and as such, the regulations in Bermuda apply to this branch. As our Swiss branch is not within the European Union, the adoption of the Reinsurance Directive may impact the ability of the branch to write reinsurance business in member states of the EU and restrict our ability to operate our business. PartnerRe U.S. is subject to regulation in the State of New York and the U.S. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the New York State Attorney General as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission have recently investigated the accounting treatment for certain reinsurance transactions. It is possible that these investigations could lead to new legislation and regulatory proposals in New York and in other states. Also, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 