Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Company involves risk. In addition to the other information in this report, prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We operate in competitive markets Our success depends upon our ability to maintain our share of the musical instrument market by providing the best instruments at prices equal to or below our competitors providing instruments of comparable quality. Increased competition could lead to price reductions, fewer large sales to institutions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Our Steinway pianos currently compete with brands sold by Bösendorfer and Fazioli, which primarily produce and market pianos at the high end of the market. Because of the potential savings associated with buying a used instrument, as well as the durability of the Steinway piano, a relatively large market exists for used Steinway pianos. It is difficult to estimate the significance of used piano sales, because most are conducted in the private aftermarket. However, we believe that used Steinway pianos provide the most significant competition in the high end piano market. Our mid-priced pianos compete with brands such as Bechstein, Schimmel, Kawai, and Yamaha. By working with manufacturers in Asia, we have been able to enjoy labor costs and manufacturing efficiencies similar to those of our primary competitors. Also, with certain limited exceptions, we allow only Steinway dealers to carry the Boston and Essex piano lines, thereby ensuring that these pianos will be marketed as complementary product lines to the Steinway line. Our band & orchestral division competes with a number of domestic and Asian manufacturers of musical instruments, including Jupiter and Yamaha. Any of our competitors may concentrate their resources upon efforts to compete in our markets. In addition, Asian musical instrument manufacturers have made significant strides in recent years to improve their product quality. They now offer a broad range of quality products at highly competitive prices and represent a significant competitive challenge for us. Our failure to compete effectively could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Economic downturns and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our business Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors, many of which are out of our control, that may, among other things, result in a decrease in sales and net income. Sales of musical instruments are dependent in part upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions. For example, Steinway, which represents more than half of our net sales, sells a relatively small number of Steinway & Sons grand pianos each year (1,752 in 2009). Given the small number of pianos we sell, even a slight decrease in sales could adversely affect our profitability. Band & orchestral sales are also dependent upon the continued interest of school-aged children in playing musical instruments. Any decrease in consumer spending, reduction in school budgets or decrease in school-aged children's interest in music could result in decreased sales, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We generate most of our sales through independent dealers and distributors We depend on a network of independent dealers and distributors to distribute all of our band instruments and a majority of our pianos. If our dealers are unsuccessful, they will reduce their purchases from us. This would negatively impact our sales and production rates. In addition, a significant number of our U.S. dealers finance their inventory purchases through third parties. One of 9 the largest firms closed its financing operation in 2009. Since the number of financing options available to our dealers has been reduced, a prolonged worldwide financial crisis could also result in decreased purchases, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. We could be subject to work stoppages or other business interruptions as a result of our unionized work force A significant portion of our hourly employees are represented by various union locals and covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements contain various expiration dates and must be renegotiated upon expiration. If we are unable to negotiate any of our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms prior to expiration, we could experience disruptions in our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Any significant disruption in our supply from key suppliers could delay production and adversely affect our sales Our Boston piano line, some of our Essex piano models, our Selmer Paris instruments, and many of our student level band & orchestral instruments are sourced from single foreign manufacturers. We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials and purchased components from our suppliers, some of which may be available only from limited resources. Moreover, we are dependent upon the availability of our suppliers to provide material that meets specifications, quality standards and delivery schedules. Our suppliers' failure to provide expected raw materials or component parts would adversely affect production schedules and profitability. Although we have had adequate supplies of raw materials and component parts in the past, there is no assurance that we may not experience serious interruptions in the future. Our continued supply of materials is subject to a number of risks including: 1) the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure; 2) work stoppages or strikes by our suppliers' employees; 3) the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality; 4) the failure of essential equipment at our suppliers' plants; 5) the failure or shortage of supply of raw materials to our suppliers; and 6) contractual amendments and disputes with our suppliers. We cannot assure investors that our suppliers will continue to provide products to us at attractive prices or at all, or that we will be able to obtain such products in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time periods we require. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that substitute raw materials or component parts will meet the strict specification and quality standards we impose. If we are not able to obtain key materials, supplies, components or sourced instruments on a timely basis and at affordable costs, or we experience significant delays or interruptions of their supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experience inherent concentration of credit risk in our accounts receivable We establish reserves for accounts receivable and notes receivable. We review overall collectibility trends and customer characteristics such as debt leverage, solvency, and outstanding balances in order to develop our reserve estimates. Historically, a large portion of our sales have been generated by our top 15 customers. As a result, we experience some inherent concentration of credit risk in our accounts receivable due to its composition and the relative proportion of large customer receivables to the total. This is especially true at our band division, which characteristically has the majority of our consolidated accounts receivable balance. We consider the credit health and solvency of our customers when extending credit and when we develop our receivable reserve estimates. If our customers fail to pay a significant portion of outstanding receivable balances, it would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 10 We may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions of related companies into our business We have historically acquired other businesses whose operations or product lines complement our existing business. We continually explore new opportunities to enter into business combinations with other companies in order to maintain and grow our revenues and market presence. These potential transactions with other companies create risks such as difficulty in assimilating the personnel, customers, technology, products and operations with our personnel, customers, technology, products and operations; disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; and impairment of relationships with existing executives, employees, customers and business partners. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates for these transactions or obtain financing or otherwise make these transactions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, the benefits that we anticipate from these potential transactions may not develop as expected and we cannot be sure that we will recover our investment in any such strategic transaction. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in our gross margins and profit levels Our gross margins vary among our product groups and have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix (that is, how much of each product type we sell in any particular quarter). The introduction of new band instruments, decreases in average selling prices and shifts in the proportion of student level instruments to professional level instruments may cause variances in our gross margins. We also experience variances in our gross margins as a result of shifts in the proportion of our piano retail sales to wholesale sales, as well as changes in amounts of piano sales to territories where we realize more favorable pricing. Failure of our new products to gain market acceptance may adversely affect our operating results New products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. Furthermore, failure of our new products to achieve market acceptance could prevent us from maintaining our existing customer base, gaining new customers or expanding our markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we have a limited number of facilities, any loss of use of any of our facilities could adversely affect our operations Our operations with respect to specific products are concentrated in a limited number of manufacturing facilities. Because we are heavily dependent on each of these facilities, our operations may be adversely affected if we experience a disruption in business at any particular facility for a prolonged period of time because we may not have adequate substitute facilities available to us. We may face difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space in our office building We derive rental income from our building on West 57th Street in New York City. The master lease that was in effect for ten years expired at the end of 2008; therefore, we no longer have guaranteed rental income. Changes in local market conditions, such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease, may make it more difficult for us to lease space at attractive rental rates or at all. If we were unable to lease a significant amount of space in our building on economically favorable lease terms, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, our cash flow could decrease which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 11 Our operations may subject us to liabilities for environmental matters, the costs of which could be material Our manufacturing operations involve the use, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of materials and waste products that may be toxic or hazardous. Consequently, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, specifically those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the cleanup of properties contaminated by hazardous substances. Many environmental laws impose strict, retroactive, joint and several liability broadly upon owners and operators of properties, including with respect to environmental matters that occurred prior to the time the party became an owner or operator. In addition, we may have liability with respect to third-party sites to which we sent wastes for disposal in the past. Our potential liability at any of these sites is affected by many factors including, but not limited to, the method of remediation, our portion of the hazardous substances at the site relative to that of other responsible parties, the number of responsible parties, the financial capabilities of other parties, and contractual rights and obligations. We have obligations and liabilities with respect to the remediation of current and former properties and third-party waste disposal sites. The liabilities and obligations in some cases are covered by an indemnification agreement and we have accrued liabilities for sites where the liability is probable and can be estimated. We cannot guarantee the indemnitor will continue to fund the cleanup liability or that the actual costs of cleanup will not exceed our present accruals. Furthermore, we may be required to fund additional remedial programs in connection with other current, former or future facilities. Future events, such as the discovery of additional contamination or other information concerning past releases of hazardous substances at our manufacturing sites (or at sites to which we sent wastes for disposal), changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and more rigorous efforts by regulatory authorities, may require additional expenditures by us to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, clean contaminated sites or curtail our operations. These expenditures could have a material negative impact on our operations. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict whether or not these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information We rely in part on patent, trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress and trademark laws to protect our rights to aspects of our business and products, including product designs, proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies. The laws of many foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. In addition, although we may have rights to a particular trademark in a given country, we may not have similar rights to that trademark in other countries. Changes in our effective tax rates could affect future results As an international Company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Some of these foreign jurisdictions have higher statutory rates than those in the United States, and certain of our international earnings are also taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income and absorption of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess 12 the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or credits to our income tax expense reserves and income tax expense may become necessary. Any such adjustments could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Our foreign operations are exposed to risks associated with foreign regulations, exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions and political, economic and social instability We manufacture, market and distribute our products worldwide. As a result, we are subject to the risks normally associated with foreign operations. For example, foreign regulations may limit our ability to produce and sell some of our products or repatriate profits to the United States. In addition, a foreign government may impose trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs, which could adversely affect our operations. Our operations may also be negatively impacted by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries in which we operate. We are also exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. A change in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Chinese yuan and renminbi, or the euro relative to each other or other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on us. Although we sometimes engage in transactions to protect against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot be sure that these fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on us. Sales outside the United States accounted for 49% of our net sales in 2009. The requirements of complying with various federal regulations may strain our resources As a public company, we are subject to various federal regulations, including the reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards, and internal controls over financial reporting. Although we devote significant time and resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the reporting requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, we can give no assurance that we will continue to meet these requirements in the future or that reportable conditions or material weakness in our internal controls and procedures may not arise despite our best efforts to prevent them. While we have taken and continue to take all steps necessary to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, including maintaining effective internal controls, our failure to meet the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley or other federal regulations could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing and equity financing. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if additional equity securities are issued to finance future developments, acquisitions, or repay indebtedness. Messrs. Kirkland and Messina exercise significant control over us, which could adversely affect investors Mr. Kyle R. Kirkland, Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Dana D. Messina, Chief Executive Officer, hold in the aggregate 100% of our Class A common stock, representing approximately 83% of the voting power of our Company's capital stock. So long as Messrs. Kirkland and Messina continue to hold a majority of the voting power, they will be able, acting together, to exercise a controlling influence over our Company, including with respect to the composition of our board of directors and, through it, the direction and policies of the Company. We cannot assure that Messrs. Kirkland and Messina will not pursue other business interests that will conflict with investors' interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 