Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our equity securities may be adversely affected if any of such risks are realized. 5 We are subject to risks inherent in the real estate business and operation of a REIT. We own and manage multifamily apartment communities that are subject to varying degrees of risk generally incident to the ownership of real estate. Our financial condition, the value of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders will be dependent upon our continued access to the debt and equity markets and our ability to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income in excess of operating expenses and debt service charges, which may be affected by the following risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below: • changes in the economic climate in the markets in which we own and manage properties, including interest rates, the overall level of economic activity, the availability of consumer credit and mortgage financing, unemployment rates and other factors; • elimination or limitations to federal government support for Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac that might result in significantly reduced availability of mortgage financing sources as well as increases in interest rates for mortgage financing; • our ability to refinance debt on favorable terms at maturity; • risks of a lessening of demand for the multifamily units that we own; • competition from other available multifamily units and changes in market rental rates; • new acquisitions and/or development projects that may fail to perform in accordance with our expectations; • increases in property and liability insurance costs; • unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses; • weather conditions that adversely affect operating expenses; • expenditures that cannot be anticipated such as utility rate and usage increases, and unanticipated repairs; • our inability to control operating expenses or achieve increases in revenue; • shareholder ownership limitations that may discourage a takeover otherwise considered favorably by shareholders; • the results of litigation filed or to be filed against us; • changes in tax legislation; • risks of personal injury claims and property damage related to mold claims that are not covered by our insurance; • catastrophic property damage losses that are not covered by our insurance; • our ability to acquire properties at prices consistent with our investment criteria; • risks associated with property acquisitions such as failure to achieve expected results or matters not discovered in due diligence; • risks related to the perception of residents and prospective residents as to the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties or the neighborhoods in which they are located; and • construction and construction business risks, including, without limitation, rapid and unanticipated increases in prices of building materials and commodities. We are dependent on rental income from our multifamily apartment communities. If we are unable to attract and retain residents or if our residents are unable to pay their rental obligations, our financial condition and funds available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. Our multifamily apartment communities are subject to competition. Our apartment communities are located in developed areas that include other apartment communities and compete with other housing alternatives, such as condominiums, single and multifamily rental homes and owner occupied single and multifamily homes. In certain markets, such as Florida, failed condominium conversions or properties originally developed as condominiums are reverting to apartment rentals, creating increasing competition in those markets. Foreclosed single family homes that become rental properties could create additional competition in certain of our markets. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain residents and to increase or maintain rental rates. 6 The properties we own are concentrated in Ohio and Michigan. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 29% and 21% of the units in properties we own were located in Ohio and Michigan, respectively. Our performance, therefore, is linked to economic conditions and the market for available rental housing in the sub-markets located in these areas. The decline in the market for apartment housing in these various sub-markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover certain risks. There are certain types of risks, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, windstorms, acts of war and terrorist attacks that may be uninsurable, are not economically insurable, or are not fully covered by insurance. Moreover, certain risks, such as mold and environmental exposures, generally are not covered by our insurance. Other risks are subject to various limits, sub-limits, deductibles and self insurance retentions, which help to control insurance costs, but which may result in increased exposures to uninsured loss. Significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Secured debt financing could adversely affect our performance. At December 31, 2010, 27 of our 52 properties were encumbered by project specific, non-recourse, and except for five properties, non-cross-collateralized mortgage debt. There is a risk that these properties may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay required principal and interest. We may not be able to refinance these loans at an amount equal to the loan balance and the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to make required payments on indebtedness that is secured by a mortgage, the property securing the mortgage may be foreclosed with a consequent loss of income and value to us. Although Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to provide needed financing to qualified borrowers, such as ourselves, there is no assurance that those mortgage capital sources will remain available or available on competitively favorable terms. Real estate investments are generally illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties when it is economically or strategically advantageous to do so. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly, and our ability to sell properties may be affected by market conditions. We may not be able to further diversify or vary our portfolio in accordance with our strategies or in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), limit the ability of a REIT to sell its properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so, thereby potentially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Litigation may result in unfavorable outcomes. Like many real estate operators, we are frequently involved in lawsuits involving premises liability claims, housing discrimination claims and alleged violations of landlord-tenant laws, which may give rise to class action litigation or governmental investigations. Any material litigation not covered by insurance, such as a class action, could result in substantial costs being incurred. The costs of complying with laws and regulations could adversely affect our cash flow. Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA") to the extent that they are "public accommodations" or "commercial facilities" as defined in the ADA. The ADA does not consider apartment communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except for portions of such communities that are open to the public. In addition, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (the "FHAA") requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to disabled individuals. Other state and local laws also require apartment communities to be disability accessible. The Fair Housing Act also prohibits discrimination against protected classes of individuals. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We have been subject to lawsuits alleging violations of handicap design laws in connection with certain of our developments. 7 Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. This liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the substances. Other laws impose on owners and operators certain requirements regarding conditions and activities that may affect human health or the environment. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could complicate our ability to lease or sell an affected property and could subject us to monetary penalties, costs required to achieve compliance and potential liability to third parties. We are not aware of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental matters in connection with any of our properties. Nonetheless, it is possible that material environmental contamination or conditions exist, or could arise in the future in the apartment communities or on the land upon which they are located. We are subject to risks associated with construction, development, acquisition and expansion of multifamily apartment communities. Development projects, acquisitions and expansions of apartment communities are subject to a number of risks, including: • availability of acceptable financing; • competition with other entities for investment opportunities; • failure by our properties to achieve anticipated operating results; • construction costs of a property exceeding original estimates; • delays in construction; and • expenditure of funds on, and the devotion of management time to, transactions that may not come to fruition. The foregoing risks are also applicable to Merit, our construction services subsidiary, whether engaged in providing services for our properties or for third parties (see “Construction Business Risk” below). We impose stock ownership limitations that may discourage a takeover otherwise considered favorable by shareholders. With certain limited exceptions, our Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, prohibit the ownership of more than 4.0% of our outstanding common shares and more than 9.8% of the shares of any series of any class of our preferred shares by any person, (the "Ownership Limit"), unless we grant a waiver. Absent such a waiver, any shares owned in excess of such ownership limit are subject to repurchase by us and to other consequences as set forth in our Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended. A transfer of shares may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our security holders' ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares. We have a shareholders rights plan which would delay or prevent a change in control. We also have a shareholders rights plan, which may be triggered if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of, or announces an offer to acquire 15.0% or more of our common shares. We are incorporated in the State of Ohio, where various state statutes place certain restrictions on takeover activity. While our Board of Directors believes that our shareholders rights plan could assist in maximizing value for our shareholders in a change in control transaction, our shareholders rights plan and these restrictions are likely to have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us without our consent. 8 We may fail to qualify as a REIT and our shareholders may incur tax liability as a result. Commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 1993, we have operated in a manner so as to permit us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that we have qualified or will qualify in the future as a REIT. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, our gross income must generally come from rental and other real estate or passive related sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to security holders at least 90.0% of our REIT taxable income excluding capital gains. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification was lost. As a result, the cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced or eliminated for each of the years involved. We depend on our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contribution of key members of our management team, who may be difficult to replace. The loss of services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the services of such personnel will continue to be available to us. Our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jeffrey I. Friedman, is a party to an employment agreement with us. Other than Mr. Friedman, we do not have employment agreements with key personnel. We do not hold key-man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We may be exposed to construction business risk. Our subsidiary, Merit, is engaged in the construction business as a general contractor. Inherent risks of those operations include the following: • fixed price or guaranteed maximum cost contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that cause actual results to exceed the cost estimates at the time of original bid, resulting in increased project costs and possible losses; • penalties for late completion; • adverse weather conditions; • continuing difficulties in the development and construction industries; • continuing difficulties in obtaining financing for development and construction; • rapid and unanticipated increases in the costs of commodities and building materials; • failure of subcontractors to perform as anticipated; • the availability of qualified subcontractors, subcontractors in turn are dependent on the availability of skilled workers; and • bonding indemnification obligations and standby letters of credit for which the parent company is responsible. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Item 