Risk Factors Our results could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements made by us in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” or elsewhere. Investors should consider these factors carefully in reading this annual report on Form 10-K. At December 31, 2011, we continued to report a substantial deficit in assets under GAAP of $703.6 million. We believe that, absent significant positive changes in the economy and the residential real estate market, the existing assets and future premiums of TGIC likely will not be sufficient to meet its current and future policyholder obligations, which could result in the institution of receivership proceedings for Triad and consequently could lead us to institute a proceeding seeking relief from creditors under U.S. bankruptcy laws, or otherwise seek to dissolve TGI. Since December 31, 2006, we have reported a cumulative net loss of $1.3 billion, which has resulted in a GAAP accumulated deficit of $826.8 million at December 31, 2011. The item that has the most significant impact on the net income or loss that we report is incurred losses. Incurred losses are comprised of settled losses and the change in loss reserves. There have been large swings in incurred losses over the past four years, with most of the volatility coming from the level of newly reported defaults and related loss reserves and the loss development, including the change in loss reserves, of existing defaults. During 2008 and 2009, the number of newly reported defaults was increasing and we were adjusting the factors that we utilized in our reserving model upward in response to sharply declining real estate values and declines in our cure rates. During 2010, a lower number of new defaults, an increase in our cure rates, higher rescission activity, and reaching the stop loss limit on a number of Modified Pool transactions all had a positive impact on our incurred losses. Additionally, with the benefit of hindsight, we lowered several of the reserve factors that we had increased in prior years. In 2011 we continued to receive an elevated volume of newly reported defaults and the reserves provided for newly reported defaults and the lack of any significant benefit from reserve development for 2010 and prior defaults, contributed to increased incurred losses in 2011. The loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate costs of claim settlement on loans reported in default, and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us, as of the date of our financial statements. The actual amount of our claim settlements may be substantially different from our loss reserve estimates. Our estimates could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, further declines in home prices, specifically in certain geographic regions that have experienced only modest declines to date, a lack of improvement in the unemployment rate, and a decrease in the realized rescission rates compared to those utilized in our reserve methodology. Changes to our estimates of reserves could result in a significant impact to our results of operations and our deficit in assets, even in a stable economic environment. During 2010, changes to our estimate of future loss reserves, due primarily to higher cures and rescission rates, contributed $140.6 million to our net income while such changes in 2011 had minimal impact on the net loss reported in 2011. Future changes in our loss reserve estimates, if any, are unlikely to provide similar benefits as those realized in 2010 and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our deficit in assets. While a deficit in assts is a useful metric to measure the financial viability of a company at any point in time, it does not measure the future net profits, if any, on the existing book of business based upon the ongoing collection of premiums against the projected future claim payments on new defaults. In our current forecast of the run-off of our remaining book of business, we anticipate that there will be years of both profits and losses. We believe that, absent significant positive changes in the economy and the residential real estate market, our existing assets and future premiums likely will not be sufficient to meet our current and future policyholder obligations. Furthermore, because we are in run-off and no longer write new mortgage guaranty insurance, our primary source of revenue is renewal premium, which we project will decline as our insurance in force declines. 16 Triad has historically reimbursed TGI for operating expenses incurred on behalf of the operating subsidiary under terms of a capital management agreement. Terms of the Corrective Orders require the approval of the Department for all intercompany transactions. If we are unable to obtain the Department’s approval for Triad to reimburse certain operating costs of TGI, then the limited assets of TGI will dissipate at a much greater pace. During 2011, Triad reimbursed TGI approximately $0.7 million for certain operating expenses, including expenses for directors’ fees, legal and accounting fees, and certain insurance premiums. TGI has invested assets of $1.3 million at December 31, 2011 and investment income is not a meaningful source of cash. If TGI were unable to recoup the majority of its cash expenses from Triad, TGI’s assets would dissipate at a much greater pace, which would increase the likelihood TGI would institute a proceeding seeking relief from creditors under U.S. bankruptcy laws or otherwise consider liquidation, which would likely eliminate all remaining stockholder value. Triad is operating under two Corrective Orders issued by the Department. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject Triad to further legal proceedings. Triad has entered into two Corrective Orders with the Department. The first Corrective Order was entered into on August 5, 2008 and was implemented as a result of our decision to cease writing new mortgage guaranty insurance and to commence a run-off of our existing insurance in force. The second Corrective Order became effective on March 31, 2009, as amended on May 26, 2009, and was implemented in anticipation of Triad reporting a deficiency in policyholders’ surplus under SAP at March 31, 2009 and to prevent the Department from having to seek receivership of Triad following the reporting of those results. These Corrective Orders, among other things, include restrictions on the distribution of dividends or interest on notes payable to TGI by Triad, allow management to continue to operate Triad under close supervision, and include restrictions on the payment of claims. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders or any other violation of the Illinois Insurance Code may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject Triad to further legal proceedings, including receivership proceedings for the conservation, rehabilitation or liquidation of Triad. If the Department were to seek receivership of Triad, TGI could be compelled to institute a proceeding seeking relief from creditors under U.S. bankruptcy laws or otherwise consider liquidation, which would likely eliminate all remaining stockholder value. Settled claims may ultimately be substantially different than the loss reserves that we have provided and such differences may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate our estimate of the reserve for losses to provide for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on loans reported in default, and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us, as of the date of our financial statements. Our reserving process incorporates various components in a model that gives effect to current economic conditions and segments defaults by a variety of criteria. The criteria include, among others, policy year, lender, geography, the number of months the loan has been in default, and the probability the policy may be rescinded for underwriting violations, as well as whether the defaults were underwritten as flow business or as part of a structured bulk transaction. Frequency and severity are the two most significant assumptions in the establishment of our loss reserves. Frequency is used to estimate the ultimate number of paid claims associated with the current inventory of loans in default. The frequency estimate assumes that historical experience, taking into consideration criteria such as those described in the preceding paragraph, and adjusted for current economic conditions that we believe will significantly impact the long-term loss development, provides a reasonable basis for forecasting the number of claims that will be paid. An important consideration in determining the overall frequency factor is the cure rate. In general, the cure rate is the percentage of reported defaults that ultimately are brought current (1) through payments of all past due amounts or (2) by disposing of the property securing the mortgage before foreclosure with no claim ever being filed because the proceeds of the sale satisfied the mortgage. During 2011, our cure rate remained flat from 2010, primarily as a result of government and lender sponsored loan modification programs. If our assumptions regarding anticipated cure rates as well as other considerations used in the overall frequency factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual settled claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. Another consideration in the establishment of our frequency factor assumptions is the impact of rescissions. Terms of our master policies allow us to rescind coverage on a loan for underwriting violations that occurred during the mortgage loan origination process. When a certificate is rescinded, the treatment is similar to a cure for reserving purposes and we no longer provide a reserve on that loan. Due to the unusually high levels of rescissions on defaults for which we have completed our investigation, our reserving methodology incorporates an expected rescission percentage on defaults that we are in the process of investigating. If our assumptions regarding anticipated cure rates, anticipated rescission rates, or other considerations used in the estimate of the overall frequency factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. 17 Severity is the estimate of the dollar amount per claim that will be paid. Severity factors are estimates of the percentage of the risk in default that will ultimately be paid. The severity factors used in setting loss reserves are based on an analysis of the severity rates of recently paid claims, applied to the risk in force of the loans currently in default. An important component in the establishment of our overall severity factor is the expected value of the underlying home for a loan in default compared to the outstanding mortgage loan amount. If our assumptions regarding anticipated home prices as well as other considerations used in the overall severity factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. The frequency and severity factors are updated quarterly to respond to the most recent available data. The estimation of loss reserves requires assumptions as to future events, and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these assumptions. Economic conditions that have affected the development of loss reserves in the past may not necessarily affect development patterns in the future in either a similar manner or degree. To the extent that possible future adverse economic conditions such as cure rates, rescission rates or declining housing prices alter those historical frequency and severity patterns, actual settled claims on the existing delinquent loans may be greater than the reserves that we have provided and require an additional charge to results of operations. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This uncertainty is based on the ability of Triad to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders, Triad’s ability to ultimately pay the DPO and related interest, and our deficit in assets at December 31, 2011. Our financial statements included in this annual report do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm dated March 16, 2012 on our consolidated financial statements for the two years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 notes that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In 2009, we sold our information technology and operating platform to Essent, a new mortgage guaranty insurer, for up to $30 million. Additionally, most of our former information technology and customer service employees have joined Essent. Under a services agreement, Essent has agreed to provide us with ongoing information technology services, customer service and policy administration support. This transaction provides for potential additional risks including: (1) the future collection of contingent payments; and (2) the outsourcing of services vital to an efficient run-off. Under the terms of the agreement, Essent acquired all of our proprietary mortgage insurance software and substantially all of the supporting hardware, as well as certain other assets, in exchange for fixed payments totaling $15 million, contingent payments of $15 million, and the assumption by Essent of certain contractual obligations. We have received all of the $15 million fixed payment as of December 31, 2011. The $15 million contingent payment is payable in six equal payments and is subject to Essent writing a certain minimum amount of insurance in each of the six consecutive six month periods following November 30, 2011. If Essent was unable to write this minimum amount, we would not receive the entire additional $15 million of the contingent purchase price, which would negatively affect our future cash flows. As part of our agreement with Essent, substantially all of our former information technology, customer service, and policy administration support employees have joined Essent. Under a services agreement, these along with other Essent employees will provide ongoing information systems maintenance and services, customer service and policy administration support to Triad while also providing these services for Essent. These services are vital to our success in run-off and we no longer have direct management over these employees. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely impacted if the services provided are insufficient or not provided in a timely manner. Our financial condition at December 31, 2011 has benefited substantially from rescission activity. We realized substantial benefits from rescissions from 2008 through 2010 with a sizable decrease in 2011. Even considering the decrease in 2011, we do not expect to realize benefits from rescission activity in future years at levels we realized in 2011. Additionally, our ability to rescind coverage could be successfully challenged in litigation. Our level of loss reserves and settled claims are both mitigated by rescission activity. From 2008 through 2010, we experienced a significant amount of rescission activity although this slowed considerably in 2011. Although we expect rescission activity will continue in future years, we believe the benefit that we receive from future activity will decline over time and will not be as significant as it was in 2011. 18 Any decision to rescind coverage may be challenged by the policyholder. Challenges to our decision to rescind or deny coverage may occur months or years after such decision was made and policyholders may challenge a decision multiple times. We are involved in disputes and litigation matters involving our rescission practices and the denial of claims and we believe it is likely that other lenders and mortgage servicers will challenge the ability of mortgage insurers, including Triad, to rescind and deny coverage, which could include the filing of additional lawsuits. An adverse court decision regarding the interpretation of a master policy provision or the impermissibility of basing a rescission or claim denial on particular originator, lender or servicer conduct could set a precedent that has the effect of significantly restricting or limiting our ability to rescind policies and deny coverage of claims. This could result not only from legal proceedings in which we are the defendant, but also from suits pending against other mortgage insurers that are addressing policy provisions or the permissibility of rescission and denial practices that are similar to our own. Our liquidity, cash flow and financial performance would be adversely affected if our ability to rescind coverage or deny claim liability is materially limited or impaired as a result of these legal challenges by policyholders and servicers. We are subject to the risks of litigation and regulatory proceedings, which may result in unexpected financial losses or gains. We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations. The plaintiffs in legal actions may seek large amounts, the discontinuance or impairment of certain practices such as the rescission of coverage and the denial of claims, or other remedies. In addition, we have, and in the future may, pursue claims against mortgage loan originators to rescind entire books of business based on misrepresentation and widespread underwriting violations. The most significant regulatory actions to which we are currently subject are the two Corrective Orders issued by the Department. However, we continue to be subject to regulatory inquiries and examinations by the Department and other state and federal regulators and authorities. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected, either negatively or positively, by an ultimate resolution of litigation or due to the effects of a regulatory action or proceeding. For further discussion of material pending litigation, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and one of our other risk factors in this Item 1A entitled “Our financial condition at December 31, 2011 has benefited substantially from rescission activity. We realized substantial benefits from rescissions from 2008 through 2010 with a sizable decrease in 2011. Even considering the decrease in 2011, we do not expect to realize benefits from rescissions in future years at levels we realized in 2011. Additionally, our ability to rescind coverage could be successfully challenged in litigation.” For further discussion of the two Corrective Orders issued by the Department, see “Business” and “Corrective Orders” in Item 1 and one of our other risk factors entitled “Triad is operating under two Corrective Orders issued by the Department. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject Triad to further legal proceedings” in this Item 1A. A substantial legal liability or a significant legal or regulatory action against us, including any adverse decision relating to our rescission or denial activities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to continue as a going concern. Similarly, a favorable resolution of litigation, including settlements that apply to past, pending or future claims with respect to large books of business, could cause our financial condition and results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period to fluctuate significantly from our historical performance. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation proceedings to which we are a party or whether we will be subject to future regulatory actions or proceedings. Normally, our operating cash flow consists of net premium received plus investment income less losses and expenses paid. If the proceeds from maturities of securities coupled with other sources are insufficient to cover operating cash flow deficits, we could be forced to liquidate securities that may result in unanticipated realized investment losses. We reported a deficit in operating cash flow for 2011 of $76.6 million which was funded primarily from sales and maturities of short-term investments. We expect to report a deficit in operating cash flow in 2012 as well which will need to be funded from maturities of investments and potentially by sales of investment. If maturing investments fail to provide sufficient cash flow to fund any future deficit in operating cash flow, we could be forced to liquidate securities prior to maturity, which may result in unanticipated realized investment losses. The Corrective Orders require that all valid claims under our mortgage guaranty insurance policies are settled 60% in cash and 40% by recording a DPO. At December 31, 2011, the recorded DPO, which includes accrued interest of $30.6 million, amounted to $629.7 million. The DPO is an interest-bearing subordinated obligation of Triad with no stated repayment terms. Distributions to the DPO holders are dependent on certain financial thresholds and distributions can only be made if approved by the Department. If the Department determines that distributions should be made to DPO holders, it would most likely result in a large cash payment by Triad, which we expect would be funded by the maturity and sale of investments. While we have structured the maturities of our invested assets to provide flexibility to accommodate any such possible payments, when and if they occur, the estimation of the timing of these payments requires assumptions as to future events and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these assumptions. If maturing investments fail to provide sufficient cash flow to fund any such possible payments to DPO holders, we could be forced to liquidate securities prior to maturity, which may result in unanticipated realized investment losses. 19 The Corrective Orders require TGIC to set aside invested assets in an escrow account in an amount equal to the combined DPO and accrued interest thereon. The Corrective Orders also require TGIC to accrue interest on the DPO at a rate equal TGIC’s investment portfolio yield as defined in the Corrective Orders. If the DPO including accrued interest exceeds TGIC’s invested assets, we could be in violation of these specific sections of the Corrective Orders. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject TGIC to further legal proceedings. At December 31, 2011, approximately 81% of our invested assets have been set aside to support the DPO and the accrued interest on the DPO in accordance with the Corrective Orders. Due to the operating cash flow deficits that we continue to experience, we anticipate liquidating additional invested assets in 2012. At the same time, we anticipate the creation of additional DPO amounts, albeit at a slower rate of growth than experienced in 2011. Furthermore, if the DPO and accrued interest exceeds our remaining invested assets, TGIC could be required to accrue more interest on the DPO than it is earning on those assets. We are currently in discussions with the Department to address these issues by amending the Corrective Orders. Absent such an amendment, any violation of the provisions of the Corrective Orders may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject TGIC to further legal proceedings. Consistent with industry practice, we provide reserves only for loans in default rather than on our estimate of the ultimate loss for all insured loans. As such, our results of operations in certain periods could be disproportionately affected by the timing of reported defaults. Reserves are provided for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on both loans reported in default and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us. We generally do not establish reserves until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two payments when due. During 2011, the number of Primary loans in default reported to us for which we provide gross reserves declined by 19% to 23,041 at December 31, 2011. The decline in the number of reported defaults during 2011 reflects a moderation in new default activity, a considerable amount of claims settled or rescinded and, to a lesser degree, cure activity. GAAP precludes us from establishing loss reserves for future claims on insured loans that are not currently in default. As a result, our financial statements do not reflect our expected losses from policies not in default. New loans in default will require additional reserves to be established and result in a charge to results of operations when they are reported to us. Since 2007, the United States housing market has experienced a significant amount of home price depreciation that has had and continues to have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If home prices do not appreciate or decline further, we may incur a higher level of losses from settled claims and increases to our loss reserves. Additionally, if home prices remain at depressed levels or decline further, additional borrowers that have the ability to pay may choose to default on the loan, which would further negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Previously, primary components of our loss mitigation efforts included selling a property prior to foreclosure as well as purchasing the property in lieu of paying the coverage percentage specified in the insurance policy. The ongoing decline in home prices has negatively affected both of these mitigation options as the fair value of many of the borrowers’ homes is actually less than the outstanding mortgage. If home values fail to appreciate or decline on a more significant and expanded geographic basis, the frequency of loans going into default and eventually resulting in a paid claim could increase and our ability to mitigate our losses on mortgages may be further reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A strategic default is a default where a borrower who has the ability and financial resources to pay their existing mortgage chooses not to pay the mortgage. Many borrowers have continued to pay on their mortgage even though the underlying value of the home supporting the loan is below the existing mortgage. We believe we will become more susceptible to strategic defaults as the difference between the property values and the existing mortgages widens and if the concept gains social acceptance. Because a large portion of our business is sensitive to interest rates, a large increase in rates would cause higher monthly mortgage payments for certain borrowers that could potentially lead to a greater number of defaults, which would adversely impact our business. At December 31, 2011, approximately 24% of our Primary and 63% of our Modified Pool gross risk in force was comprised of adjustable-rate mortgage loans or “ARMs.” Monthly payments on these loans are altered periodically through an adjustment of the interest rate. Many ARMs have a fixed interest rate for a stated period of time before being subjected to interest rate adjustments. As a result, some ARMs that we insure have not yet been subject to an interest rate adjustment. In periods of rising interest rates, a borrower’s monthly payment with an ARM will most likely increase. A large increase in interest rates over a short period of time could lead to “payment shocks” for borrowers that could potentially lead to more reported defaults. 20 At December 31, 2011, approximately 9% of our Primary and 18% of our Modified Pool gross risk in force was comprised of pay-option ARMs with the potential for negative amortization on the loan. These loans provide borrowers the option, for a stated period of time, to make monthly payments that do not cover the interest due on the loan. If the borrower chooses this payment option, the unpaid interest is added to the outstanding loan amount, which creates negative amortization. These pay-option ARM loans may have a higher propensity to default than the amortizing ARM product because of more severe “payment shocks” after the initial low-payment period expires and because the borrower does not automatically build equity through loan amortization as payments are made. We already have experienced a substantially higher default rate on pay-option ARMs than the remainder of our portfolio, even before many of these loans were scheduled to shift to amortizing payments. The risk of default may be further increased if the interest rate paid during the payment option period is significantly below current market rates. Additionally, the lack of long-term historical performance data associated with pay-option ARMs across all market conditions makes it difficult to project performance and could increase the volatility of the estimates used in our reserve models. If interest rates increase and cause “payment shocks” to borrowers with ARMs, our default rate could increase, and this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a high concentration of risk in force in the distressed markets and these markets have a large amount of risk in default. Ongoing depressed home prices in these distressed markets could lead to further increases in reserves and paid claims, which could further negatively influence our financial performance. At December 31, 2011, our risk in force for the distressed markets represented approximately 26% of our gross risk in force. These distressed markets have experienced greater home price depreciation since 2007 and higher foreclosure rates when compared to the rest of the country. Moreover, defaults in distressed markets represented 41% of our risk in default and 37% of our gross loss reserves at December 31, 2011. The default rate at December 31, 2011 in these distressed markets was 33% compared to 15% for the remainder of our portfolio. If the home values in the distressed markets remain at current depressed levels or drop further, we could experience additional adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition due to the large concentration of our business in these distressed markets. A large portion of our insurance in force consists of loans with high LTVs, which could result in a greater number of defaults and larger claims than loans with lower LTVs, especially during and following periods of declining home prices. At December 31, 2011, approximately 21.5% of our Primary mortgage insurance in force consisted of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination greater than 95%. During and following periods of rapidly declining home prices such as that which has occurred during the past few years, these loans have a greater propensity to default due to the decline in borrower’s equity. Loans with greater than 95% LTV at origination have experienced a significantly greater default rate than loans with lower LTVs as of December 31, 2011. Many of the high LTV loans also contain other risk factors such as geographic location in distressed markets and were originated with reduced documentation requirements. Faced with mortgages that are greater than the value of the home, a number of borrowers are “strategically defaulting” by simply abandoning the property and walking away from the mortgage, without regard to their ability to pay. This limits the ability of the servicer to work with the borrowers to avoid defaults and foreclosure and increases the imbalance of the housing inventory for sale, which in turn further depresses home prices. If we are required to pay a claim on a high LTV loan, our loss mitigation opportunities are limited during periods of depressed home prices and we generally are required to pay the full option payment, which is the highest amount that we could pay under the terms of our master policy. If we experience an increased rate of default and paid claims on high LTV loans, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we generally cannot cancel mortgage guaranty insurance policies or adjust renewal premiums due to changing economic conditions, unanticipated defaults and claims could cause our financial performance to suffer significantly. We generally cannot cancel the mortgage guaranty insurance coverage that we provide or adjust renewal premium rates during the life of a mortgage guaranty insurance policy, even as economic conditions change. As a result, the impact of unanticipated changes, such as declining home prices and high levels of unemployment, cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or cancellation of insurance coverage other than those allowed by the master policies relating to fraud, misrepresentation or program violations at origination. The premiums we charge in many cases have not been adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to our customers, especially in these distressed financial markets. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated defaults and claims could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results because we could not cancel existing policies or increase renewal premiums. Our loss experience may increase as our policies continue to age. Historically, we expected the majority of claims on insured loans in our portfolio to occur during the second through the fifth years after loan origination with only modest losses occurring thereafter. However, given the decline in home prices and high levels of unemployment that have occurred in recent years, we experienced an earlier default and claim pattern in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 policy years combined with an increase in new default activity in older policy years. Claim incidence for the 2005, 2006, and 2007 policy years has already significantly exceeded the assumptions used in establishing our premium rates. Furthermore, the policy years with the greatest percentage increase in default rates during 2011 were from the 2004 and prior policy years, which are books of business where ordinarily we would expect minimal default activity given the age of the policies. We believe our loss experience may continue to increase as our policies age due to the significant decline in home prices and continued high unemployment rates. 21 If we failed to properly underwrite mortgage loans when we provided contract underwriting services, we may be required to provide monetary and other remedies to the customer. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agreed to indemnify the participating lender against losses incurred in the event that we failed to properly underwrite a loan in accordance with the lender’s underwriting guidelines, subject to contractual limitations on liability. The indemnification may be in the form of monetary or other remedies. As a result, we assumed risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. During 2011, we paid out $2.9 million on remedies and we have a reserve established of $7.1 million at December 31, 2011, which may not be sufficient to cover our future indemnification obligations. An increase in the number of previous contract underwritten loans for which we must provide an indemnity could adversely affect our financial condition. Loan servicers have experienced a significant increase in their workload due to the rapid growth in defaults and foreclosures. If the loan servicer fails to act proactively with delinquent borrowers in an effort to avoid foreclosure, then the number of delinquent loans eventually resulting in a paid claim could increase. The loan servicer maintains the primary contact with the borrowers throughout the life of the loan; however, we can become involved with any potential loss mitigation. It is important to us that the servicer is proactive in dealing with delinquent borrowers rather than simply allowing the loan to go to foreclosure. Historically, when a servicer became involved at an earlier stage of delinquency with workout programs and credit counseling, there was a greater likelihood that the loan would avoid foreclosure and would not result in a claim. It thus becomes extremely important that the servicer be properly staffed and trained to assist borrowers to avoid foreclosure and involve Triad as part of the loss mitigation effort as early as possible. If loan servicers do not properly staff and train their personnel or enlist our assistance in loss mitigation efforts, then the number of loans going to foreclosure may increase. Increased foreclosures result in a greater number of claims that we are required to pay, which would have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Triad is operating in run-off under Corrective Orders from the Department and maintaining experienced staff is critical to achieving a successful run-off. We have eliminated a significant number of sales, marketing, underwriting and administrative positions since we entered run-off in 2008. Additionally, we have outsourced a number of functions such as information technology, customer service and quality assurance. As a result, Triad only has 51 employees at February 1, 2012. Our current retention measures coupled with a weak economy that does not promote career changes have limited the amount of voluntary departures. As the number of full-time employees declines, it becomes even more important to retain our key employees. In order to retain our key personnel, we have established a severance plan and a retention plan, both of which expire in 2012. If we fail to adopt or gain approval from the Department to replace any severance or retention plans, we may be unable to retain key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could limit our ability to properly execute an efficient and effective run-off. The level of cures that we experienced in 2010 and continuing in 2011 as a result of HAMP and other loan modification programs may not be sustainable going forward. The U.S. Treasury and several lenders have adopted programs such as HAMP to modify loans to make them more affordable to borrowers with the goal of reducing the number of foreclosures. Some of HAMP’s eligibility criteria require current information about borrowers, such as their current income and non-mortgage debt payments. Because the GSEs and servicers do not share such information with us, we cannot adequately determine with any degree of certainty the number of loans in our delinquent inventory that are eligible to participate in HAMP. Further, it takes several months from the time a borrower has made all of the payments during HAMP’s three month “trial modification” period for the loan to be reported to us as a cured delinquency. During 2011 and 2010, approximately 1,800 and 3,600, respectively, of our defaults were cured as a result of HAMP loan modifications. We also had other defaults cure as a result of individual lenders’ modification programs. In January 2012, the federal government announced that it was revising HAMP by expanding eligibility requirements and increasing the incentive it pays to servicers and lenders for principal forgiveness. For the first time, the government will also pay Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac an incentive fee for principal forgiveness. The changes go into effect during the second quarter of 2012. HAMP was scheduled to expire at the end of 2012, but the program was extended until December 2013. We cannot estimate the impact of these changes on the number of loans eligible for participation or the effect on our financial condition. The U.S. Treasury also supports HARP, a refinancing program for borrowers that are currently not in default that allows borrowers to refinance to take advantage of lower interest rates even if the existing mortgage is greater than the current value of the collateral. While HARP refinancings do not impact cures (as these loans are currently not in default), it does strengthen the long-term viability of these loans through lower monthly payment requirements. 22 Even if a loan is cured through a loan modification, the ultimate impact on Triad of loan modifications depends on how many modified loans subsequently re-default. Re-defaults can result in additional losses for us that could be greater than we would have paid had the loan not been modified. Currently, we cannot estimate what the ultimate re-default rate will be, and therefore we cannot estimate whether these programs will provide material benefits to us. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTCBB and the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the OTCBB and Pink Sheets has resulted in reduced liquidity for our stockholders and makes it more difficult for them to execute transactions in our common stock. We delisted our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Select Market in December of 2009. In 2010, average daily trading volume of our common stock declined by 82% compared to 2009 levels. In 2011, the average daily trading volume of our common stock declined by 55% compared to 2010 levels. Additionally, our common stock has experienced large relative percentage price swings on minimal volume over the past two years and there have been a number of trading days in which no shares of our common stock were traded. We believe the liquidity of our common stock has been adversely affected and it has become more difficult for investors to trade our common stock. If the small trading volumes on the OTCBB and Pink Sheets persist or decline even further, our stockholders could be subjected to indeterminate periods of reduced liquidity for our common stock. Our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan may not be effective in preventing an "ownership change" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and our deferred tax assets and other tax attributes could be significantly limited. We have significant deferred tax assets that are generally available to offset future taxable income or income tax. On May 19, 2011, the shareholders approved the Triad Guaranty Inc. Tax Benefits Preservation Plan previously adopted by the Board of Directors on September 13, 2010, to help protect the ability of the Company to recognize certain potential tax benefits in future periods from net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits (the "Tax Benefits"). Additionally, the shareholders approved a resolution to amend our certificate of incorporation that established restrictions on the transfer of our common stock to avoid an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code which would invalidate any stock transaction if the result of the transaction was to create a new 5% holder or add to the position of any existing 5% holder. The ability to utilize the Tax Benefits depends on future taxable income and limitations imposed by tax laws; however, the ability of TGI and its subsidiaries to use their respective Tax Benefits would be substantially limited if there were an "ownership change" of TGI as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Internal Revenue Service pronouncements. As part of the Plan, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of its common stock. The dividend was payable to holders of record as of the close of business on September 27, 2010, but the Rights would only be activated if triggered by the Plan. The Rights will be triggered in any instance of a person becoming a 5% shareholder or by an existing 5% shareholder increasing its ownership percentage (subject to certain exceptions). If triggered, each Right would become exercisable, which could result in significant economic dilution to such acquiring person. The Rights will trade with, and be represented by, the existing common stock of TGI and no further action by stockholders is necessary unless and until a triggering event occurs and the Rights become exercisable. Should the Rights become exercisable, TGI will notify stockholders. Although the Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood that we will experience an ownership change, there can be no assurance that the Plan will be effective in preventing an ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, our ability to use the Tax Benefits in the future would likely be limited. Furthermore, even if there is no ownership change, we may not realize the entire benefit or any benefit of the deferred tax asset that exists as of December 31, 2011. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 