Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Asset Sale The failure to complete the Asset Sale may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and limit our ability to grow and implement our lead generation business strategies. OriGene’s obligation to close the Asset Sale is subject to a number of contingencies, including approval by our stockholders, and other closing conditions set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement. We cannot control some of these conditions and we cannot assure you that they will be satisfied or that OriGene will waive any that are not satisfied. If the Asset Sale is not completed, we may be subject to a number of risks, including the following: ● there may not be another party interested in and able to purchase our business or Company; ● if an alternate purchaser and transaction is identified, such alternate transaction may not result in an equivalent price to what is proposed in the Asset Sale; ● the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Asset Sale will be completed; ● our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees may be damaged and our business may be harmed; and ● we may be required to pay OriGene a termination fee of $480,000. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock may decline. Following completion of the Asset Sale, we will continue to retain certain liabilities. The Asset Purchase Agreement provides that we will retain certain of our liabilities following closing of the Asset Sale, including certain indemnification obligations to OriGene. Should we incur any actual losses with respect to any such liabilities, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock may decline. While the Asset Sale is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Asset Sale is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future. As a result of this uncertainty, our current or potential business partners may decide to delay, defer or cancel entering into new business arrangements with us pending completion or termination of the Asset Sale . In addition, while the Asset Sale is pending, we are subject to a number of risks, including: ● the diversion of management and employee attention from our day-to-day business; ● the potential disruption to business partners and other service providers; 9 ● the loss of employees who may depart due to their concern about losing their jobs following the Asset Sale; and ● we may be unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have incurred substantial transaction costs and diversion of management resources in connection with the Asset Sale, and we will continue to do so until the closing. The asset purchase agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Asset Sale. The Asset Purchase Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell our business or Company to a party other than OriGene. These provisions include a nonsolicitation provision (including certain matching rights), a provision requiring that we submit the Asset Sale to our stockholders for approval unless the Asset Purchase Agreement has been terminated in accordance with its terms, and provisions obligating us to pay OriGene a termination fee of $480,000 under certain circumstances. These provisions could discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of our business or Company from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher value than the consideration to be paid by OriGene. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations may fluctuate or may not be profitable which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: ● unanticipated events associated with regulatory changes; ● general economic conditions; ● acceptance of our products; ● the success of products competitive with ours; ● expenses associated with development and protection of intellectual property matters; ● establishing or maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; ● the timing of expenses related to commercialization of new products; ● seasonality; and ● the timing and success in building our distribution channels. In addition, the operations that we retained after the divesture our water quality and food safety businesses in 2011 and 2012, respectively, have not historically been profitable, while the divested operations did achieve profits in the past. The results of our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may not meet expectations of securities analysts and investors. This may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our research and development activities may not produce desired and expected results, and we may alter our plans or programs at any time for this or any other reason. We have undertaken various research and development programs designed to allow us to offer products and services that will be attractive to new and prospective customers. These programs may not achieve desired or expected results, or we may determine for other reasons to no longer pursue certain programs. In such a case, our business model may change, and we may not realize any benefits of our past expenditures on the discontinued programs. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We use radioactivity in conducting biological assays and we use solvents that could be flammable in conducting our research and development activities. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. 10 Our antibody production process utilizes various species of animals that could contract disease or die, interrupting business operations. Our antibody production process utilizes animals to produce antibodies. We cannot completely eliminate the risks of animals contracting disease or a disaster that could cause death to valuable production animals, and from time to time we experience instances of animal disease in our vivarium facilities. We cannot make any assurance that we will be able to contain or reverse any such instance of disease. Disease or death on a broad scale could interrupt business operations as animals are a key part of the antibody production operation, which could have a serious adverse effect on our business operations. If we do not obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property, the value of our technology and products may be adversely affected. Our business and competitive positions are dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret and other intellectual property strategies and laws, employment, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements and protective contractual provisions with other third parties. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing trademark applications and U.S., foreign and international patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. As of December 31, 2012, we had rights in four issued U.S. patents, and three pending U.S. and foreign patent applications relating to various aspects of our business. We also had a number of trademark registrations in the United States for a variety of word marks and slogans. We do not believe that any single patent, trademark or other intellectual property right of ours, or combination of our intellectual property rights, is likely to prevent others from competing with us using a similar business model. There are many issued patents and patent applications held by others in our industry. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies, or design around our patents or other intellectual property to avoid infringement. In addition, we may not apply for a patent relating to products or processes that are patentable, we may fail to receive any patent for which we apply or have applied, and any patent owned by us or issued to us could be circumvented, challenged, invalidated, or held to be unenforceable, or rights granted thereunder may not adequately protect our technology or provide a competitive advantage to us. If a third-party challenges the validity of any patents or proprietary rights of ours, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming. Although third parties may infringe on our patents and other intellectual property rights, we may not be aware of any such infringement, or we may be aware of potential infringement but elect not to seek to prevent such infringement or pursue any claim of infringement, and the third party may continue its potentially infringing activities. Any decision whether or not to take further action in response to potential infringement of our patent or other intellectual property rights may be based on any one or more of a variety of factors, such as the potential costs and benefits of taking such action, and business and legal issues and circumstances. Litigation of claims of infringement of a patent or other intellectual property rights may be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of key company personnel, and may not be successful or result in any significant recovery of compensation for any infringement or enjoining of any infringing activity. Litigation or licensing discussions may also involve or lead to counterclaims that could be brought by a potential infringer to challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require our employees, consultants, contractors and outside collaborators to enter into written nondisclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide adequate protection to prevent any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. Also, others may independently develop the same or substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our ability to market our services may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success is dependent in part upon our ability to avoid infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, patent filings and litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products, services or processes that we compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents or patent applications potentially adverse to our interests that may have been or may later be issued to or filed by others. U.S. patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office. If other companies have or obtain patents relating to our products or services, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services. 11 Based on the litigious nature of our industry and the fact that we may pose a competitive threat to some companies who own or control various patents, it is always possible that one or more third parties may assert a patent infringement claim seeking damages and to enjoin the manufacture, use, sale and marketing of our products and services. If a third- party asserts that we have infringed on its patent or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming and could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services. Lawsuits may have already been filed against us without our knowledge. Additionally, we may receive notices from other third parties suggesting or asserting that we are infringing their patents and inviting us to license such patents. We do not believe that we are infringing on any other party’s patents or that a license to any such patents is necessary. Should litigation over such patents arise, we intend to vigorously defend against any allegation of infringement. If we are found to infringe on the patent or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses or rights to the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture, market or sell our products and services. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we succeed in obtaining such licenses, payments under such licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which may be licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make a license unnecessary, we may be unable to manufacture, use, market or sell our products and services, which could significantly affect our ability to achieve, sustain or grow our commercial business. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, patent litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our business, divert our management’s attention and consume our financial resources. We cannot predict if or when any third party will file suit for patent or other intellectual property infringement. The difficulties of operating in international markets may harm sales of our products. Customers outside of the United States accounted for 15% and 13% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate, and in which our products are sold. The types of risks that we face in international operations include, but are not limited to: ● the imposition of governmental controls; ● logistical difficulties in managing international operations; and ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales and operations may be limited or disrupted if we cannot successfully meet the challenges of operating internationally. Future acquisitions and business combinations that we consummate may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. From time to time, we have considered and may in the future consider expanding our operations and market presence by making acquisitions and entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will consummate any transactions in the future. However, these transactions create risks, such as: ● difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; ● disrupting our ongoing business; ● problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; ● additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; and ● impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. Any of the events described in the foregoing paragraph could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. 12 If we do not produce future taxable income, our ability to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards could be significantly reduced. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards, including those acquired in the Company’s past acquisitions, of approximately $11.0 million, which, if not utilized, begin to expire as follows: Net Operating Loss Year (in thousands) 2022 $ 1,222 2024 1,876 2025 3 2026 1 2027 1 2028 3,492 2029 2,501 2030 1,281 2031 601 Total $ 10,978 The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the “Act”) limits the annual use of net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards (after certain ownership changes, as defined by the Act). The application of these limits could significantly restrict our ability to utilize carryforwards. Certain of our total net operating loss carryforwards from 2001 and prior years are subject to limitations on their annual use since a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% has occurred within a three-year period with respect to those net operating loss carryforwards. The Company is currently evaluating recent changes in ownership and has determined that no limitations on net operating loss carryforwards exist for the years expiring 2028 through 2031 (tax years 2008 through 2011). If it is determined that an ownership change of more than 50% within a three-year period did occur for prior years, as determined pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, substantially all of the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards expiring through 2027 could be subject to annual limitations on usage. Because U.S. tax laws limit the time period during which these carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income, we may not be able to take full advantage of these attributes for federal and state income tax purposes due to the annual limitation usage. Based on the best information available to us today, we may not have sufficient future taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards prior to their expiration, and we have established a full valuation allowance against these net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards for financial reporting purposes. Certain of our shareholders are able to significantly influence proposals for a change in control or other matters requiring a shareholder vote. Directly, or through entities that they control, members of our Board of Directors as of December 31, 2012 controlled approximately 20.2% of our common stock. Through entities that he controls, Steven R. Becker, who joined our Board effective March 12, 2009, controlled approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Due to this concentration of ownership, members of our Board, acting together or, in some cases, individually, can substantially influence all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including, without limitation: ● the election of directors ● the amendment of our organizational documents; or ● the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board and removal of directors only for cause. Accordingly, stockholders may elect only a portion of our board at any annual meeting, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in management. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby effect a change in the composition of our Board of Directors. Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations and permit only our President or a majority of the Board of Directors to call a special stockholder meeting. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that limit our ability to engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change of control of our company. 13 Our stock has generally had low trading volume, and its public trading price has been volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $0.87 and $2.13 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the year of approximately 27,991 shares. The market may experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access capital markets. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Should we fail to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 