Item 1A. Risk Factors If we do not produce future taxable income, our ability to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards could be significantly reduced. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards, including those acquired in the Company’s past acquisitions, of approximately $17.4 million, which, if not utilized, begin to expire as follows: Year Net Operating Loss (in thousands) 2010 $ 4,536 2017 760 2018 1,327 2019 550 2020 66 2021 56 2022 2,268 2024 2,033 2025 3 2026 1 2027 1 2028 3,492 2029 2,287 Total $ 17,380 The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the “Act”) limits the annual use of net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards (after certain ownership changes, as defined by the Act). The application of these limits could significantly restrict our ability to utilize carryforwards. Certain of our total net operating loss carryforwards from 2001 and prior years are subject to limitations on their annual use since a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% has occurred within a three-year period with respect to those net operating loss carryforwards. The Company is currently evaluating recent changes in ownership. If it is determined that an ownership change of more than 50% within a three-year period did occur, as determined pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, substantially all of the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards could be subject to annual limitations on usage. Because U.S. tax laws limit the time period during which these carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income, we may not be able to take full advantage of these attributes for federal and state income tax purposes due to the annual limitation usage. Based on the best information available to us today, we may not have sufficient future taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards prior to their expiration, and we have established a full valuation allowance against these net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards for financial reporting purposes. Our results of operations may fluctuate, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: ● unanticipated events associated with regulatory changes; ● general economic conditions; ● acceptance of our products; ● the success of products competitive with ours; ● expenses associated with development and protection of intellectual property matters; ● establishing or maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; ● the timing of expenses related to commercialization of new products; ● seasonality; and ● the timing and success in building our distribution channels. 11 The results of our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may not meet expectations of securities analysts and investors. This may cause our stock price to be volatile. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We use radioactivity in conducting biological assays and we use solvents that could be flammable in conducting our research and development activities. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Our antibody production process utilizes various species of animals that could contract disease or die, interrupting business operations. Our antibody production process utilizes animals to produce antibodies. We cannot completely eliminate the risks of animals contracting disease or a disaster that could cause death to valuable production animals. Disease or death on a broad scale could interrupt business operations as animals are a key part of the antibody production operation. The difficulties of operating in international markets may harm sales of our products. Customers outside of the United States accounted for 27% and 25% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of our sales transactions are in U.S. dollars, however, we received payments in British pounds sterling for approximately $3.0 million in sales from our foreign subsidiary. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate, and in which our products are sold. The types of risks that we face in international operations include, but are not limited to: ● the imposition of governmental controls; ● logistical difficulties in managing international operations; and ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales and operations may be limited or disrupted if we cannot successfully meet the challenges of operating internationally. Future acquisitions and business combinations that we consummate may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. From time to time, we have considered and may in the future consider expanding our operations and market presence by making acquisitions and entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will consummate any transactions in the future. However, these transactions create risks, such as: ● difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; ● disrupting our ongoing business; ● problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; ● additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; and ● impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. Any of the events described in the foregoing paragraph could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. The leases for our headquarters and a property where we conduct manufacturing and research will expire no later than December 31, 2011. If we are unable to negotiate new leases for our existing space, or find replacement space, in either case on terms that are attractive to us, or if we are required to make substantial capital improvements in either the existing or new space, our results of operations could be harmed. Our headquarters and 25,000 square feet of manufacturing and research space that we lease in Newark, Delaware are leased under operating leases that will expire no later than December 2011. We are currently considering our options with respect to renewal or replacement of this space. We may be unable to negotiate new leases for our existing space, or to find replacement space, in either case on terms that are attractive to us. In addition, should we elect to attempt to negotiate new leases in our current facilities, we may have to make investments in capital improvements to enhance the space. In any such case, our results of operations could be harmed. 12 Certain of our shareholders are able to significantly influence proposals for a change in control or other matters requiring a shareholder vote. Directly, or through entities that they control, members of our Board of Directors as of December 31, 2009 controlled approximately 29% of our common stock. Through entities that he controls, Steven R. Becker, who joined our Board effective March 12, 2008, controlled approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. Due to this concentration of ownership, members of our Board, acting together or, in some cases, individually, can substantially influence all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including, without limitation: ● the election of directors; ● the amendment of our organizational documents; or ● the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board and removal of directors only for cause. Accordingly, stockholders may elect only a portion of our board at any annual meeting, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in management. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. Our issuance of additional preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby effect a change in the composition of our Board of Directors. Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations and permit only our President or a majority of the Board of Directors to call a special stockholder meeting. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that limit our ability to engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change of control of our company. Our stock has generally had low trading volume, and its public trading price has been volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $0.85 and $2.25 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the year of approximately 17,000 shares. The market may experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 