Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our equity securities may be adversely affected if any of such risks are realized. 5 I. We are subject to risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. We own and manage multifamily apartment communities that are subject to varying degrees of risk generally incident to the ownership of real estate. Our financial condition, the value of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders will be dependent upon our ability to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income in excess of operating expenses and debt service charges, which may be affected by the following risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below: • changes in the economic climate in the markets in which we own and manage properties, including interest rates, our ability to consummate the sale of properties pursuant to our current plan, the overall level of economic activity, the availability of consumer credit and mortgage financing, unemployment rates and other factors; • the ability to refinance debt on favorable terms at maturity; • the ability to defease or prepay debt pursuant to our current plan; • risks of a lessening of demand for the multifamily units that we own or manage; • competition from other available multifamily units and changes in market rental rates; • increases in property and liability insurance costs; • unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses; • weather conditions that adversely affect operating expenses; • expenditures that cannot be anticipated such as utility rate and usage increases, unanticipated repairs and real estate tax valuation reassessments or millage rate increases; • inability to control operating expenses or achieve increases in revenue; • the results of litigation filed or to be filed against us; • changes in tax legislation; • risks of personal injury claims and property damage related to mold claims because of diminished insurance coverage; • catastrophic property damage losses that are not covered by our insurance; • the ability to acquire properties at prices consistent with our investment criteria; • risks associated with property acquisitions such as environmental liabilities, among others; • changes in or termination of contracts relating to third party management and advisory business; and • risks related to the perception of residents and prospective residents as to the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties or the neighborhoods in which they are located. We are dependent on rental income from our multifamily apartment communities. If we are unable to attract and retain residents or if our residents are unable to pay their rental obligations, our financial condition and funds available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. Our multifamily apartment communities are subject to competition. Our apartment communities are located in developed areas that include other apartment communities and compete with other housing alternatives, such as condominiums, single and multifamily rental homes and owner occupied single and multifamily homes. In certain markets, such as Florida, failed condominium conversions or properties originally developed as condominiums are reverting to apartment rentals, creating increasing competition in those markets. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain residents and to increase or maintain rental rates. The properties we own are concentrated in Ohio, Michigan, Georgia, Florida, Indiana, Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 32%, 23%, 14%, 10%, 7%, 6%, 5% and 3% of the units in properties we own were located in Ohio, Michigan, Georgia, Florida, Indiana, Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, respectively. Our performance, therefore, is linked to economic conditions and the market for available rental housing in the sub-markets in which we operate. The decline in the market for apartment housing in the various sub-markets in Ohio, Michigan, where 55% of our units are located, or to a lesser extent the sub-markets in the other states, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 6 Our insurance may not be adequate to cover certain risks. There are certain types of risks, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, windstorms, acts of war and terrorist attacks that may be uninsurable, are not economically insurable, or are not fully covered by insurance. Moreover, certain risks, such as mold and environmental exposures, generally are not covered by our insurance. Other risks are subject to various limits, sublimits, deductibles and self insurance retentions, which help to control insurance costs, but which may result in increased exposures to uninsured loss. Any such uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Debt financing could adversely affect our performance. Thirty-two of our fifty properties are encumbered by project specific, non-recourse, and except for five properties, non-cross-collateralized mortgage debt. There is a risk that these properties may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay required principal and interest. We may not be able to refinance these loans at an amount equal to the loan balance and the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to make required payments on indebtedness that is secured by a mortgage, the property securing the mortgage may be foreclosed with a consequent loss of income and value to us. Real estate investments are generally illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties when it is economically or strategically advantageous to do so. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly, and our ability to sell properties may be affected by market conditions. We may not be able to further diversify or vary our portfolio in accordance with our strategies or in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code") limit the ability of a REIT to sell its properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so, thereby potentially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our access to corporate public bond markets is limited. Substantially all of our current debt is either secured or bank debt under our revolving credit facility because of our limited access to corporate public bond markets. Litigation may result in unfavorable outcomes. Like many real estate operators, we are frequently involved in lawsuits involving premises liability claims, housing discrimination claims and alleged violations of landlord-tenant laws, which may give rise to class action litigation or governmental investigations. Any material litigation not covered by insurance, such as a class action, could result in substantial costs being incurred. Our financial results may be adversely impacted if we are unable to sell properties and employ the proceeds in accordance with our strategic plan. Our ability to pay down debt, reduce our interest costs, and acquire properties is impacted by our ability to sell the properties we have selected for disposition at the prices and within the deadlines established for each respective property. Moreover, if we are unable to acquire properties at prices consistent with our investment criteria, we may reduce or discontinue property sales. The costs of complying with laws and regulations could adversely affect our cash flow. Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA") to the extent that they are "public accommodations" or "commercial facilities" as defined in the ADA. The ADA does not consider apartment communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except for portions of such communities that are open to the public. In addition, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (the "FHAA") requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped. Other laws also require apartment communities to be handicap accessible. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We have been subject to lawsuits alleging violations of handicap design laws in connection with certain of our developments. 7 Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. This liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the substances. Other law imposes on owners and operators certain requirements regarding conditions and activities that may affect human health or the environment. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could complicate our ability to lease or sell an affected property and could subject us to monetary penalties, costs required to achieve compliance and potential liability to third parties. We are not aware of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental matters in connection with any of our properties. Nonetheless, it is possible that material environmental contamination or conditions exist, or could arise in the future in the apartment communities or on the land upon which they are located. We are subject to risks associated with development, acquisition and expansion of multifamily apartment communities. Development projects, acquisitions and expansions of apartment communities are subject to a number of risks, including: • availability of acceptable financing; • competition with other entities for investment opportunities; • failure by our properties to achieve anticipated operating results; • construction costs of a property exceeding original estimates; • delays in construction; and • expenditure of funds on, and the devotion of management time to, transactions that may not come to fruition. II. We impose stock ownership limitations. With certain limited exceptions, our Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended and supplemented to date, prohibit the ownership of more than 4.0% of the outstanding common shares and more than 9.8% of the shares of any series of any class of our preferred shares by any person, unless we grant a waiver. Absent such a waiver, any shares owned in excess of such ownership limit are subject to repurchase by us and to other consequences as set forth in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation. All shares of stock issued by the Company are subject to the following restrictions, whether such shares are in certificated or uncertificated form: "The Common Shares represented by this certificate are subject to restrictions on transfer for the purpose of preserving the Corporation’s status as a Real Estate Investment Trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Subject to certain provisions of the Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, no Person may Beneficially Own Common Shares in excess of 4.0% of the outstanding Common Shares of the Corporation (unless such Person is an Existing Holder) and no Person (other than an Existing Holder who Constructively Owns in excess of 9.8% of the Common Shares immediately following the consummation of the Initial Public Offering) may Constructively Own Common Shares in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding Common Shares of the Corporation. Any Person who attempts to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own Common Shares in excess of the above limitations must immediately notify the Corporation. All capitalized terms in this legend have the meanings defined in the Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, a copy of which, including the restrictions of transfer, will be sent without charge to each shareholder who so requests. If the restrictions on transfer are violated, certain of the Common Shares represented may be subject to repurchase by the Corporation on the terms and conditions set forth in the Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation." We also have a shareholders rights plan, which may be triggered if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of, or announces an offer to acquire 15.0% or more of our common shares. We are domiciled in the State of Ohio, where various state statutes place certain restrictions on takeover activity. These restrictions are likely to have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us without our consent even if a change in control is in the interests of shareholders. All shares of stock issued by the Company include the following reference to such shareholders rights agreement whether such shares are in certificated or uncertificated form: 8 "This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as set forth in an Amended and Restated Shareholder Rights Agreement between Associated Estates Realty Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and National City Bank, a national banking association, as rights agent (the "Rights Agent"), dated as of December 30, 2008 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which are incorporated by reference herein and a copy of which is on file at the principal offices of the Company and the stock transfer administration office of the Rights Agent. The Company will mail a copy of the Rights Agreement without charge to the holder of this certificate within five days after the receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, the Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. The Company may redeem the Rights at a redemption price of $0.01 per Right, subject to adjustment, under the terms of the Rights Agreement. Under certain circumstances, Rights issued to or held by Acquiring Persons or by any Affiliates or Associates thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement), and any subsequent holder of such Rights, may become null and void. The Rights are not exercisable, and are void so long as held, by a holder in any jurisdiction where the requisite qualification to the issuance to such holder, or the exercise by such holder, of the Rights in such jurisdiction has not been obtained." III. We may fail to qualify as a REIT and our shareholders may incur tax liability as a result. Commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 1993, we have operated in a manner so as to permit us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Although we believe that we will continue to operate as a REIT, no assurance can be given that we will remain qualified as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification was lost. As a result, the cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced or eliminated for each of the years involved. IV. We are subject to control by our directors and officers. Our directors and executive officers and some members of their respective families owned approximately 15.0% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, those persons have substantial influence over us and the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. V. We depend on our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contribution of key members of our management team, who may be difficult to replace. The loss of services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the services of such personnel will continue to be available to us. Our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jeffrey I. Friedman, is a party to an employment agreement with us. Other than Mr. Friedman, the Company does not have employment agreements with key personnel. We do not hold key-man life insurance on any of our key personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 