Risk Factors Our results could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements made by us in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” or elsewhere. Investors should consider these factors carefully in reading this annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Capital, Rating Agencies and Regulatory Concerns We believe our level of capital is inadequate to support our current ratings and to continue to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements. If our current ratings are downgraded or we violate regulatory requirements, absent the receipt of waivers from the GSEs and insurance regulators, we would not be able to write new insurance and would be limited to servicing our remaining book of business. Our risk-to-capital ratio has risen dramatically over the past year, driven primarily by significant increases in our risk-in-force during the past 12 months and operating losses we incurred in the last two quarters of 2007. We believe the housing and mortgage markets in 2008 will continue to be adversely affected by a number of factors, including declining home prices, an oversupply of homes offered for sale and increased foreclosures, particularly in certain distressed markets. We expect we will incur additional operating losses as new defaults are reported. Based on our internal projections, we must significantly augment our capital resources in the second quarter of 2008 in order to preserve our ability to continue to write new insurance. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, we have been working with a prominent financial advisory firm to pursue alternatives for enhancing our capital. We have not yet 22 Table of Contents succeeded in obtaining any commitments for an investment in our company, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such commitments in the future. If we are unable to raise capital sufficient to address rating agency and regulatory requirements, we may suffer the following effects: • One or more rating agencies would likely downgrade our ratings, which could limit or eliminate our ability to conduct business with lenders, including those who sell their mortgages to the GSEs. Moreover, if we are downgraded, the GSEs would have the right to require lenders to cancel our remaining insurance in-force on a selective basis and substitute the cancelled policies with new policies written by another mortgage insurer. • Our risk-to-capital ratio would exceed applicable insurance regulatory limits, which could cause the Illinois Department of Insurance or other state insurance regulatory authorities to suspend or limit our ability to write new mortgage insurance policies. • If we were unable to continue writing new business, we would seek to implement a plan to “run-off” Triad. Under this plan, we would continue to collect premiums on our remaining policies, service these policies and settle claims under them. We would not write new policies. In addition, we would, to the extent of available funds, pay amounts owed to our creditors. Only funds remaining after satisfaction of these obligations, if any, would be available for distribution to our stockholders. The proposals that have been considered involve structures under which Triad would implement a “run-off” plan and a newly formed mortgage insurer would acquire certain of Triad’s employees, infrastructure, sales force and insurance underwriting operations. In addition, we would cease writing new business. These proposals do not involve a direct investment in Triad. Completing any such transaction would be subject to numerous conditions, including obtaining necessary consents and approvals from our stockholders, the Illinois Department of Insurance and other state insurance regulatory authorities, the GSEs, rating agencies and other third parties. No assurance can be given that such consents and approvals could be obtained or that we can complete any such transaction. In addition, no assurance can be given that we would have any ownership interest in any new mortgage insurer formed to acquire assets of Triad or have any opportunity to share in the potential financial returns available from insurance written by such an insurer. If we implement a run-off plan and our business is limited to servicing our remaining book of in-force insurance, we face additional regulatory and operating risks that could reduce or eliminate the market value of our common stock. If our business is limited to running-off our remaining book of in-force insurance, we will be subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: • Any liquidation or run-off plan would be subject to approval by the Illinois Department of Insurance and other state insurance regulatory authorities, whose focus would be on the protection of policyholders and not our stockholders. These authorities could impose significant restrictions on our operations, including more stringent financial reporting obligations and restrictions on the movement of funds from Triad to the holding company. Restrictions on the movement of funds to the holding company could adversely affect our ability to pay operating expenses and service our debt obligations. • In run-off, we would likely be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders until all claims of policyholders and other creditors have been satisfied or there are adequate funds, in the view of applicable insurance regulatory authorities, to make appropriate provisions for the satisfaction of such obligations. It could take many years before it would be possible to determine whether there are any funds available for distribution to stockholders and no assurance can be given that any such funds will be available. • If our actual claims and losses suggested that Triad were, or would become, insolvent, Triad would likely be placed in delinquency proceedings by the Illinois Department of Insurance. If Triad were placed in delinquency proceedings, it is unlikely that any funds would ever be available for distribution to stockholders. 23 Table of Contents • If Triad were placed in delinquency proceedings by the Illinois Department of Insurance or if we were unable to pay our indebtedness or other obligations when due, we could be forced to seek protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. • During run-off, the GSEs and our lender customers could have rights to transfer our remaining insurance in-force to other mortgage insurers on a selective basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. • During run-off, we would need to substantially reduce our general and administrative and operating expenses by, among other things, substantially reducing our employee headcount in order to conserve our financial resources. In addition, we might have difficulty retaining certain essential employees. The loss of certain employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement a successful run-off plan, increasing the possibility that we would ultimately be placed in delinquency proceedings. • If, as a result of a sustained low valuation in the market price for our common stock, we failed to satisfy applicable NASDAQ listing requirements, our common stock would be delisted. In that case, trading would be available only in over-the-counter markets and the liquidity of our shares would be adversely affected. If further negative rating agency actions result in our inability to qualify as a Type 1 insurer under existing and proposed Fannie Mae guidelines, or as a Type I insurer under existing and proposed Freddie Mac guidelines, effectively we would be unable to write new business. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have published guidelines that prescribe the requirements for a mortgage insurer to qualify as a Type 1 or Type I insurer, respectively (the highest levels recognized that enable the mortgage insurer to participate in all levels of activities). These guidelines provide that the mortgage insurer must be rated no lower than “AA-” by Fitch and S&P and “Aa3” by Moody’s. At December 31, 2007 Triad was rated “AA-” by both Fitch and S&P and “Aa3” by Moody’s, the lowest rating level allowed under published guidelines. On February 14, 2008 Freddie Mac announced that it was suspending its Type II Insurer classifications, which are otherwise automatically applicable to mortgage insurers that are downgraded below “AA-” or “Aa3” by the rating agencies, provided the mortgage insurer commits to submitting a complete remediation plan within 90 days of the downgrade. On February 26, 2008, Fannie Mae announced that in the event of a mortgage insurer credit downgrade by a rating agency below its eligibility thresholds, a current Type 1 insurer will not automatically be reclassified as a Type 2 insurer in the event of such a credit downgrade, provided that the mortgage insurer is in good standing with the agency’s requirements and submits a written remediation plan, together with supporting documentation, within 30 days of the adverse action. Once a downgraded mortgage insurer submits a remediation plan, both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae retain the right to determine, in their sole discretion, whether to accept such plan. If Triad were to be downgraded below “AA-” or “Aa3” by a rating agency, no assurance can be given that it would be in a position to take necessary corrective action or furnish an acceptable remediation plan, that the GSEs would approve any plan submitted or that Triad would maintain its status as a Type 1 or I insurer. As a result, lenders may limit the amount of mortgage insurance that they would place with Triad, which would significantly impair Triad’s ability to write new business and adversely affect its business and financial condition. If our risk-to-capital ratio continues to increase, we could face adverse regulatory and rating agency action and be in violation of covenants in our credit agreements, which would adversely impact our ability to write new business. At December 31, 2006, Triad’s risk-to-capital ratio was approximately 12.5-to-1. As a result of the growth in our risk in force coupled with our net loss in 2007, our risk-to-capital ratio grew to 20.5-to-1 at December 31, 2007. Most of the states that regulate us have general provisions that limit the risk-to-capital ratio to 25-to-1; however, some states have specific requirements depending on LTV and coverage percentages that may impose an even lower risk-to-capital ratio. Rating agencies generally utilize a risk-adjusted capital ratio that takes into consideration various portfolio characteristics; however, they monitor the overall risk-to-capital ratio as a general component of their overall ratings process. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the holding company contributed $50 million to 24 Table of Contents Triad, in part to ensure that the risk-to-capital ratio requirement of the holding company’s credit facility would be met. If we were to experience net losses for an extended period of time without an additional infusion of capital or a reduction in risk in force at the insurance company level, we could face negative regulatory and rating agency action that could limit or prevent Triad from writing new business. If we fail to meet the various minimum required levels or maintain designated financial ratios detailed in the regulations of the states in which we write business, we could be declared to be in a hazardous financial condition, which could ultimately lead to restricting future business in those states. Many states have separate safety and soundness regulations in addition to the risk-to-capital ratio. Some of these include minimum surplus levels, loss ratio and annual loss-to-surplus ratio, among others. Several states apply standard property and casualty benchmarks to our results that neglect to factor in the statutory contingency reserve, which is a part of our statutory capital. As a result of the September 30, 2007 statutory filings of Triad in which we had not yet released the contingency reserve back into surplus, several states sent inquiries to us requesting additional information and indicated that we could be placed in a hazardous condition status. This status designation means that our ability to write new business in those states may in the future be restricted or prohibited. If we are restricted or prohibited from writing future business in one or more states, lenders may not wish to continue to write business with us and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in the business practices or legislation relating to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could significantly impact our business. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the beneficiaries of the majority of our policies, so their business practices have a significant influence on us. Changes in their practices could reduce the number of policies they purchase that are insured by us and, consequently, reduce our revenues. Some of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s programs require less insurance coverage than they historically have required, and they have the ability to further reduce or eliminate coverage requirements, which would reduce demand for mortgage insurance and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and to alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low-down-payment mortgages they purchase, which thereby affect the quality of the risk and the availability of mortgage loans. Additionally, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can alter the terms on which mortgage insurance coverage can be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds established by law, and the circumstances in which mortgage servicers must perform activities intended to avoid or mitigate loss on insured mortgages that are delinquent. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have both recently announced temporary changes to permitted captive reinsurance cede rates and their mortgage insurer requirements. Recent legislation has temporarily increased the maximum GSE loan limits up to $729,750 in certain markets. The Office of Federal Housing Oversight recently announced that it was removing portfolio growth caps on the GSEs’ retained mortgage portfolios. We cannot predict the extent to which these or any new requirements that may be enacted will affect the operations of our mortgage insurance business, our capital requirements and our products. Legislation and regulatory changes, including changes impacting the GSEs, could significantly affect our business and could reduce demand for private mortgage insurance. Mortgage origination transactions are subject to compliance with various federal and state consumer protection laws, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, or RESPA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and others. Among other things, these laws prohibit payments for referrals of settlement service business, require fairness and non-discrimination in granting or facilitating the granting of credit, require cancellation of insurance and refunding of unearned premiums under certain circumstances, govern the circumstances under which companies may obtain and use consumer credit information, and define the manner in which companies may pursue collection activities. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect our operations and profitability. 25 Table of Contents Congress is currently considering proposed legislation relating to the regulatory oversight of the GSEs, their affordable housing initiatives, the GSEs’ products and marketing activities, the GSEs’ minimum capital standards, and their risk-based capital requirements. If adopted in its present form, OFHEO would be replaced by a new federal agency, the Federal Housing Enterprise Regulatory Agency, and its director would be given significant authority over the GSEs including, among other things, oversight of the operations of the GSEs and their capital adequacy and internal controls and new program approval. The proposed legislation encompasses substantially all of the operations of the GSEs and is intended to be a comprehensive overhaul of the existing regulatory structure. The proposed legislation could limit the growth of the GSEs, which could result in a reduction in the size of the mortgage insurance market. We do not know what form any such legislation will take if it is enacted or its impact, if any, on our financial condition and results of operations. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are subject to having their charters temporarily or permanently changed by their regulators. The recent housing turmoil has prompted a number of actions by the federal government to support the housing market in general as well as specifically supporting distressed borrowers. However, we have yet to see any meaningful impact on our operations resulting from federal government actions or proposals. However, we have yet to see any meaningful impact on our operations resulting from federal government actions or proposals. In addition, recent increases in the maximum loan amount or other features of the FHA mortgage insurance program can reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and we have already seen evidence that the FHA mortgage insurance program is much more competitive with private mortgage insurance. Future legislative and regulatory actions could decrease the demand for private mortgage insurance, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic Conditions If deteriorating economic conditions alter the frequency and severity patterns utilized in our estimates for reserves for losses, we may be required to take additional charges to results of operations. We calculate our best estimate of the reserve for losses to provide for the estimated costs of settling claims on loans reported in default, and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us, as of the date of our financial statements. Our reserving process incorporates various components in a model that gives effect to current economic conditions and segment defaults by a variety of criteria. The criteria include, among others, policy year, lender, geography and the number of months and number of times the policy has been in default, as well as whether the defaults were underwritten as flow business or as part of a Primary or structured bulk transaction. Frequency and severity are the two most significant assumptions in the establishment of our loss reserves. Frequency is used to estimate the ultimate number of paid claims associated with the current defaulted loans. The frequency estimate assumes that historical experience, taking into consideration criteria such as those described in the preceding paragraph, and adjusted for current economic conditions that we believe will significantly impact the long-term loss development, provides a reasonable basis for forecasting the number of claims that will be paid. An important consideration in determining the frequency factor is the cure rate. In general, the cure rate is the percentage of reported defaults that ultimately are brought current (1) through payments of all past due payments or (2) by disposing of the property securing the mortgage before foreclosure with no claim ever filed because the proceeds of the sale satisfied the mortgage. During 2007, our cure rate declined from historical levels as home prices declined and the ability to dispose of the property through a sale before foreclosure diminished. If our assumptions regarding anticipated cure rates as well as other considerations used in the frequency factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. Severity is the estimate of the dollar amount per claim that will be paid. The severity factors are estimates of the percentage of the risk in default that will ultimately be paid. The severity factors used in setting loss reserves are based on an analysis of the severity rates of recently paid claims, applied to the risk in force of the loans currently in default. An important component in the establishment of the severity factor is the expected value of the underlying home for loans in default compared to the outstanding mortgage loan amount. If our assumptions regarding anticipated house price depreciation as well as other considerations used in the severity factor vary from those 26 Table of Contents actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. The frequency and severity factors are updated quarterly to respond to the most recent data. The estimation of loss reserves requires assumptions as to future events, and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these assumptions. Economic conditions that have affected the development of loss reserves in the past may not necessarily affect development patterns in the future in either a similar manner or degree. To the extent that possible future adverse economic conditions such as declining cure rates or declining housing prices alter those historical frequency and severity patterns, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may be greater than the reserves that we have provided and require a charge to results of operations. Consistent with industry practice, we provide reserves only for loans in default that have been reported to us rather than on our estimate of the ultimate loss. As such, our results of operations in certain periods could be disproportionately affected by the timing of reported defaults. Reserves are provided for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on both loans reported in default and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us. Generally accepted accounting principles preclude us from establishing loss reserves for future claims on insured loans that are not currently in default. We generally do not establish reserves until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two payments when due. During 2007, the loans in default for which we provide reserves grew 91% to 12,749 at December 31, 2007. A prolonged deterioration of general economic conditions such as increasing unemployment rates or declining housing prices could adversely alter the historical delinquency patterns, resulting in an even larger percentage increase in the level of loans in default than experienced in 2007. An increase in the number of loans in default would require additional reserves and a charge to results of operations as they are reported to us. During 2007 the United States housing market experienced a significant amount of home price depreciation, which had a direct negative impact on our loss reserves and paid claims during 2007. If home prices continue to decline on a more significant and larger geographic basis than experienced in 2007, we may incur a higher level of losses from paid claims and also be required to increase our loss reserves. A component of our mitigation efforts on mortgage insurance claims is our option of paying the coverage percentage in full satisfaction of our obligations under the policy (full payment option) or paying off the entire loan amount and taking title to the mortgaged property underlying a defaulted loan (purchase option). The critical assumption behind the purchase option is that the property has appreciated in value since the loan was originated and that we will be able to recover some portion of amount at risk, through the acquisition and subsequent sale of the property. The purchase option proved successful during most of 2006 in mitigating losses, but was less successful in 2007. The S&P/Case-Shiller© Home Price Index for the 20-City Composite as of December 2007 indicated an annual 9.1% decline in home prices from one year ago, the largest annual decline since the index was first published. There were declines in every city comprising the index during the last several months of 2007, indicating that home price depreciation is not limited to several areas or locations in the United States. The assumptions utilized in our reserve methodology have factored in a certain amount of loss mitigation resulting from the utilization of the purchase option. If housing values fail to appreciate or decline on a more significant and larger geographic basis, the frequency of loans going into default and eventually to a paid claim could increase and our ability to mitigate our losses on defaulted mortgages may be further reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Because a significant portion of our business is sensitive to interest rates, a large increase in rates would cause higher monthly mortgage payments for borrowers that could potentially lead to a greater number of defaults, which would adversely impact our business. At December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of our Primary risk in force and approximately 74% of our Modified Pool risk in force was comprised of adjustable-rate mortgage loans or ARMs. Monthly payments on these loans are altered periodically through an adjustment of the interest rate. Many ARMs have a fixed interest rate for a stated period of time, and accordingly, have not yet been subject to an interest rate adjustment. In periods of rising interest rates, a borrower’s monthly payment will increase. A large increase in interest rates over a short period of time could lead to “payment shocks” for borrowers that could potentially lead to more reported defaults. 27 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, approximately 13% of both our Primary risk in force and our Modified Pool risk in force is comprised of pay option ARMs with the potential for negative amortization on the loan. These loans provide borrowers the option, for a stated period of time, to make monthly payments that do not cover the interest due on the loan. If the borrower chooses this payment option, the unpaid interest is added to the outstanding loan amount, which creates negative amortization. These pay option ARM loans may have a heightened propensity to default because of possible “payment shocks” after the initial low-payment period expires and because the borrower does not automatically build equity through loan amortization as payments are made. We already have experienced a higher default rate on pay option ARMs than the remainder of our portfolio, even before many of these loans are scheduled to shift to amortizing payments. The risk of default may be further increased if the interest rate paid during the payment option period is significantly below current market rates. Additionally, the lack of long-term historical performance data associated with pay option ARMs across all market conditions makes it difficult to project performance and could increase the volatility of the estimates used in our reserve models. If interest rates increase and cause “payment shocks” to borrowers with ARMs, our default rate could increase, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Geographic concentration of our risk in force in certain distressed markets has resulted in increased defaults and higher risk in default from the significantly larger loans in these states. Ongoing house price depreciation in these distressed markets could lead to further increases in reserves and paid claims ,which could further significantly impact negatively our financial performance. At December 31, 2007, our risk in force for California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada, which we classify as “distressed markets,” represented approximately 32% of our total risk in force on a per policy basis. These distressed markets have experienced some of the most rapid home price depreciation in 2007 and disruption in the housing markets when compared to the rest of the country. These distressed markets represent 32% of our total risk in force at December 31, 2007. Moreover, they represented 47% of both our risk in default and our loss reserves. The default rate at December 31, 2007 in these distressed markets amounted to 5.7% compared to 3.5% for the remainder of our portfolio. If the housing markets continue to decline at a steep rate or for an extended period of time in these distressed markets, we could experience additional adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition due to the large concentration of our business in these distressed markets. We experienced a significant increase in reported defaults and paid claims during 2007. If the pace of declining home prices and ongoing credit problems in the mortgage marketplace continues or remains unsettled, we anticipate an increased number of defaults and paid claims, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Beginning in 2006 and accelerating in 2007, home prices in most geographic areas declined. Additionally, after several years of relaxed credit standards, lenders have generally tightened their credit guidelines. Many borrowers that had qualified for mortgages under less restrictive credit standards have found it difficult to meet their ongoing mortgage payments. Faced with declining home values and a tight market for credit, these borrowers often are unable to refinance or sell their homes. Resulting borrower defaults have contributed to our 91% increase in defaults during 2007. The default rates on the 2006 and early 2007 vintage years, which contain increased risk factors such as Alt-A and pay option ARMs, especially in the distressed market states of California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada, have been particularly high. These factors contributed significantly to the substantial increase in our reserves during the year and, if they continue, are expected to result in additional and significant increases in our reserves in the future. The inability of borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their mortgages in the current environment has resulted in a greater percentage of defaulted loans becoming claims by lenders against mortgage insurers. As a result, we have lowered our assumptions regarding the cure rates for the purpose of our reserve models, which in turn has increased our frequency factor. The increase in the frequency factor was a significant reason for the increase in our reserves during the third quarter. If the factors described above continue, we expect further increases in actual defaults, further increases in our frequency factor and corresponding increases in our reserves that would significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. If the facts and estimates underlying the assumptions that we utilized at December 31, 2007, to determine both if a premium deficiency reserve is necessary or to ensure that the DAC is recoverable against future 28 Table of Contents profits change, we will need to adjust those assumptions in the future, which could result in the impairment of part or all of the DAC asset and require the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve, which would have a significant immediate adverse impact on results of operations. The methodology used to assess whether a premium deficiency reserve is necessary or whether DAC is recoverable against future profits is essentially the same. We use a model that projects anticipated premiums, paid losses, and maintenance costs over the expected remaining life of the existing insurance in force portfolio to estimate the remaining net cash flow from the portfolio. To the extent the net cash flows plus recorded net reserves are positive there is no need for a premium deficiency reserve. Our assessment is performed on the entire in force portfolio as a whole based upon the homogenous performance of the various components of the portfolio to date. At December 31, 2007, our assessment indicated that no premium deficiency reserve was necessary and that DAC was recoverable against future profits. The most significant assumptions that we make in this assessment are the persistency of the premium stream and the timing and severity of the paid losses. Each quarter, we will assess the need for a premium deficiency reserve on the remaining insurance in force. We will monitor the development of premiums, losses and expenses compared to our previous estimates and consider any variance from our prior estimates in making assumptions as to future results. Changes to any of these assumptions could have an effect on the determination of whether DAC is recoverable or a premium deficiency reserve needs to be recorded. If the existing in force portfolio exhibits a significant amount of performance differentiation among the various products, we may need to segment the adversely performing product(s) in future periods for our assessment if a premium deficiency reserve is required. The breakout of adversely performing product(s) of the existing insurance in force would likely result in the need for a premium deficiency reserve on those product(s), which could have a significant immediate adverse impact on results of operations. If we have an extended period of low mortgage interest rates, it could lead to increased refinancings that would have a negative impact on persistency, which could lead to reduced insurance in force and ultimately to reduced revenues. Interest rates have been falling over the past several months and are widely expected to continue to fall and borrowers may take the opportunity to refinance their existing mortgages to receive a lower interest rate. Additionally, an extended period of low interest rates presents borrowers with an ARM product the opportunity to refinance to a fixed rate product. When borrowers refinance, our coverage terminates and we may or may not provide coverage on the refinanced loan, depending on many factors. An extended period of low mortgage interest rates could lead to increased refinancings, which would have a negative impact on persistency and could result in decreased revenues due to a reduction of insurance in force. Risks Related to Products The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on non-prime loans, pay option ARMs and Alt-A loans may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these products, especially under distressed conditions. Over the past several years, the percentage of non-prime loans, pay option ARMs and Alt-A loans in our portfolio has grown significantly. On these non-prime loans, pay option ARMs and Alt-A loans, we charge an increased premium over prime, fixed rate and fully documented loans. The credit quality, loss development and persistency on these loans can vary significantly from our traditional prime loan business. For example, at December 31, 2007, the delinquency rate on the pay option ARMs was 6.4% compared to the entire portfolio (excluding pay option ARMs) of 3.8%. Additionally, the Alt-A loan portfolio at year end had a 7.2% delinquency rate compared to 3.1% for the remainder of our portfolio. We expect that we will continue to experience higher default rates for non-prime loans, Alt-A loans and pay option ARMs than for our prime fixed rate loans. Long-term historical performance data associated with non-prime loans, pay option ARMs and Alt-A loans across all market conditions, especially in the distressed markets, does not exist. We cannot be sure that the increased premiums that we apply to non-prime, pay option ARMs and Alt-A loans will adequately offset the associated risk, increased defaults and potentially larger amounts of claims, which could adversely impact our operating results. 29 Table of Contents A growing portion of our insurance in force consists of loans with high loan-to-value ratios, which could result in a greater number of defaults and larger claims than loans with lower loan-to-value ratios during periods of declining home prices. At December 31, 2007, approximately 17% of our mortgage insurance in force consisted of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination greater than 95%. In periods of declining home prices, these loans have a greater propensity to default due to the limited equity investment of the borrower. Loans with greater than 95% LTV at origination have experienced a significantly greater default rate than lower LTVs as of December 31, 2007. Many of the high LTV loans also contain other risk factors such as geographic location in distressed markets and were originated with reduced documentation. Faced with mortgages that are greater than the value of the home, a number of borrowers are simply abandoning the property and walking away from the mortgage, without regard to their ability to pay. This limits the ability of the servicer to work with the borrowers to avoid defaults and foreclosure and increases the imbalance of the housing inventory for sale, which in turn further depresses home prices. If we are required to pay a claim on a high LTV loan, our loss mitigation opportunities are limited during periods of declining home prices and we generally are required to pay the full option payment, which is the highest amount that we could pay under our contracts with lenders. If we experience an increased default rate and paid claims on high LTV loans, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Operations Although we were successful in reducing our concentrations during 2007, our business remains concentrated among relatively few major lenders and our operating results could decline if we lose a significant customer. Our mortgage originations continue to be concentrated within the Top 10 originators, which accounted for approximately 73% of our total originations during 2007 compared to approximately 80% in 2006. Our business remains dependent on a relatively small number of customers. Additionally, our top three lenders were responsible for approximately 54% of our Primary flow new insurance written during 2007 compared to approximately 65% in 2006. Further, one of the top three lenders representing over 20% of our flow NIW in 2007 filed for bankruptcy protection and is not currently originating any new loans. This concentration of business could increase as a result of announced consolidation in the lending industry or other factors. The loss of business from one or more of our major lenders in addition to the pending bankruptcy of a significant customer could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues and profits could decline if we lose market share as a result of industry competition or if our competitive position suffers as a result of our inability to introduce and successfully market new products and programs. There are seven main mortgage insurance providers, of which we are the smallest. The mortgage insurance industry is highly dynamic and intensely competitive. The other private mortgage insurance providers are Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation, Radian Guaranty Inc., PMI Mortgage Insurance Company, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company, United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company, and Republic Mortgage Insurance Company. All of these competitors are better capitalized than Triad and have lower risk-to-capital ratios. Two of these are subsidiaries of well-capitalized companies with stronger insurance financial strength ratings and greater access to capital than we have. If we are unable to compete successfully against other private mortgage insurers, or if we experience delays in introducing competitive new products and programs or if these products or programs are less profitable than our existing products and programs, our production will suffer, which could ultimately lead to reduced revenue. Because we generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance policies or adjust renewal premiums due to changing economic conditions, unanticipated defaults and claims could cause our financial performance to suffer significantly. We generally cannot cancel the mortgage insurance coverage that we provide or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy, even as economic factors change. As a result, the impact of unanticipated changes, such as the dramatic decline in home prices resulting in increased defaults and claims like those experienced in 2007, generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or cancellation of 30 Table of Contents insurance coverage. The premiums we charge may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to our customers, especially in distressed financial markets. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated defaults and claims could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results because we could not cancel existing policies or increase renewal premiums. Our loss experience is likely to increase as our policies continue to age. Historically, we expect the majority of claims on insured loans in our current portfolio to occur during the second through the fifth years after loan origination. However, during 2007 we experienced an earlier default and claim pattern, with 60% of our risk in default at December 31, 2007 coming from the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. While we have experienced an earlier default rate among our most recent vintages, we are still experiencing the normal seasoning on our older vintage years that are now in the peak default and claim paying period. Total insurance written from the period of January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2006 (vintage years within the historical highest default and claim paying period) represented 62% of our risk in force as of December 31, 2007. Accordingly, a significant majority of our portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. We believe our loss experience is likely to increase as our policies age. If the claim frequency on our risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting our premium rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our revenues and DAC amortization depend on the renewal of policies that may terminate or fail to renew with Triad. The large majority of our premiums each month are derived from the monthly renewal of policies that we previously have written. Factors that could cause an increase in non-renewals of our policies include falling mortgage interest rates (which tend to lead to increased refinancings and associated cancellations of mortgage insurance), appreciating home values, which can lead to more refinances and mortgage insurance cancellations, and changes in the mortgage insurance cancellation requirements applicable to mortgage lenders and homeowners. During 2007, persistency increased to near record levels as home prices declined and borrowers found it increasingly difficult to refinance or sell their existing homes due to the illiquidity in the marketplace, which had a positive impact on earned premiums. In addition to the impact on earned premiums, the amount of DAC amortization expense would be adversely impacted if policies terminate at a rate faster than was originally estimated in our DAC models. A decrease in the length of time that our mortgage insurance policies remain in force reduces our revenues and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our delegated underwriting program may subject our mortgage insurance business to unanticipated claims. A significant percentage of our new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program. These programs permit certain mortgage lenders to determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and enable these lenders to commit us to issue mortgage insurance. We may expand the availability of delegated underwriting to additional customers. If an approved lender commits us to insure a mortgage loan, we may refuse to insure, or we may rescind coverage on that loan if the lender fails to follow our delegated underwriting guidelines. Even if we terminate a lender’s underwriting authority, we generally remain at risk for any loans previously insured on our behalf by the lender before that termination, absent fraud or other similar circumstances. The performance of loans insured through programs of delegated underwriting has not been tested over a period of extended adverse economic conditions, meaning that the program could lead to greater losses than we anticipate. If losses are significantly greater than anticipated, our delegated underwriting program could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to properly underwrite mortgage loans when we provide contract underwriting services, we may be required to provide monetary and other remedies to the customer. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements with certain lenders, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event that we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. As a part of the contract underwriting services, we provide monetary and other remedies to our customers in the event that we fail to properly underwrite a mortgage loan. As a result, we assume credit and interest rate risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. Worsening economic conditions, a deterioration in the quality 31 Table of Contents of our underwriting services or other factors could cause our contract underwriting liabilities to increase and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have established a reserve to provide for potential claims in connection with our contract underwriting services, we have limited historical experience that we can use to establish reserves for these potential liabilities, and these reserves may not be adequate to cover liabilities that may arise. If the operating subsidiary, Triad, is prohibited from making interest payments on its $25 million surplus note to the holding company, then the holding company could be unable to make the required interest payments on its $35 million long-term debt outstanding. Terms of the $25 million surplus note at Triad, the main operating subsidiary, restrict the accrual or payment of interest if the statutory surplus immediately before the scheduled interest payment is due falls below the level of the statutory surplus at origination of this loan. Statutory surplus is increased when the statutory contingency reserve is released under applicable regulations. In our September 30, 2007 statutory filings, we had not yet released the contingency reserve allowed to us due to the significant increase in our loss ratio. We released the contingency reserve in the December 31, 2007 statutory filings, which resulted in sufficient surplus that allowed for the accrual and payment of the interest on the $25 million surplus note. In addition to exceeding the required level of surplus, we must obtain approval to pay interest from our primary regulator, the Department of Insurance for the State of Illinois. If we are unable to obtain the approval from our primary regulator for the payment of interest on the surplus note or if we are unable to meet the required statutory surplus levels, then the holding company would only be able to meet its debt service requirements from its existing capital for a limited period of time and this could cause it to default on its existing long-term debt. If many of our lender partners for which we have entered into risk-sharing agreements, such as captive reinsurance treaties, continue under financial stress for an extended period of time, then the ability of these lenders to meet their financial obligations under the captive reinsurance treaties may be limited to the trust balances maintained within the reinsurance structures, which could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. Two of the 22 lenders for which we had established captive reinsurance programs are in bankruptcy, while several others are under financial duress. An integral component of the reinsurance treaties include trust balances, which remain under our control, to support a portion of the risk assumed by the reinsurer. As defaults increase and we reach the point where the attachment point is exceeded for individual vintage years, we cede reserves to the captive. When reserves are initially ceded to the captive, the requirement for additional trust balances generally increases. When the need for additional trust balances cannot be met through ceded reinsurance premiums, then additional capital contributions would be required by the lender. The ability of the lenders that are currently under financial duress to meet their future financial obligations under the captive reinsurance agreements beyond the trust balances may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. If for any reason a lender is unable to fund its reinsurance obligations, Triad would remain obligated to pay the claims, which would increase our losses. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation with a bankrupt former lender over our ability to rescind or deny coverage for certain loans due to program violations or fraud, this could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. We have been sued related to our rescission of or denial of coverage for loans originated by a bankrupt lender. The plaintiffs are debtors and debtors in possession in Chapter 11 cases pending in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The lawsuit is an action for breach of contract and declaratory judgment. The basis for the complaint’s breach of contract action is the cancellation by us of our certification of the bankrupt lender’s coverage on 14 loans due to irregularities that we uncovered following the submission of claims for payment and that existed when the bankrupt lender originated the loans. The complaint alleges that our actions caused the bankrupt lender to suffer a combined net loss of not less than approximately $1.1 million and seeks monetary damages and a declaratory judgment. We have identified additional program violations or instances of suspected fraud; however, we have not rescinded or denied coverage for additional loans since the lawsuit was filed as we attempt to research and clarify all of the facts. We expect to rescind or deny coverage for additional loans originated by the bankrupt lender and we intend to contest 32 Table of Contents the lawsuit vigorously. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation and we are prohibited from rescinding or denying coverage due to program violations or fraud, it could have a significant adverse impact on our future results. If the financial strength ratings of the financial guarantors that enhance a significant portion of our investment portfolio are lowered, that could limit the ability to sell affected bonds and could be indicative of a permanent impairment, which could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations. At December 31, 2007, approximately 77% of our municipal bond portfolio contained credit enhancements through financial guaranty companies resulting in an overall “AAA” rated portfolio. Most of the financial guaranty companies have recently come under significant financial pressure. A downgrade of the financial guaranty company would have the impact of lowering the rating of the individual municipal bonds in our portfolio. These lower rated bonds may be less attractive in the marketplace and their market value could be materially diminished. Additionally, our ability to sell the lower rated bonds, if necessary, at a price that recoups our cost could also be lessened. Further, if we determine that the bond has been other than temporarily impaired, we will be required to write it down and charge our results of operations. If the lenders are unwilling or unable to continue our relationship going forward due to recent guideline changes and limitations imposed by us during the fourth quarter of 2007, then our future production could suffer and it could have a negative impact on future revenue and results of operations. As part of our new underwriting guidelines instituted in the fourth quarter of 2007, we have limited the production of certain lenders from both a geographic and product standpoint. In some cases, our guidelines could no longer support all of the products offered by various lenders. Many lenders utilize allocation percentages to different mortgage insurers to avoid concentrations and adjust these allocations from time to time. If we are unable to support specific products offered by the lender, then we are at risk that our allocation could be lowered or eliminated completely. If the lenders are unwilling or unable to continue our relationship going forward, then our production and future operating results could suffer. If we cannot reduce operating costs to meet the anticipated reduced production and in force amounts, then we may be unable to compete effectively with other mortgage insurers. Our underwriting guideline changes reduced production in the fourth quarter of 2007 and early 2008. Although persistency remained near all-time high levels during 2007, a prolonged decline in production would eventually result in a lower insurance in force. The cost structure in place for the Company at December 31, 2007 was established with expectations of ongoing growth and increased production. Since year-end, we have reduced our sales staff as well as closed most of our underwriting offices. If we are unable to match our reductions in operating costs in a manner that would result in an expense ratio at or below that experienced in 2007, then we may not be competitive with other mortgage insurers. Loan servicers have recently experienced a significant increase in their workload due to the rapid growth in defaults and foreclosures. If the loan servicer fails to act proactively with delinquent borrowers in an effort to avoid foreclosure, then the number of delinquent loans eventually going to claim status could increase. The loan servicer maintains the primary contact with the borrowers throughout the life of the loan and we can become involved with any potential loss mitigation only with permission from the servicer. During periods of declining home prices and increased delinquencies, such as that currently being experienced in the mortgage business, it is important to us that the servicer be proactive in dealing with borrowers rather than simply allowing the loan to go to foreclosure. Historically, when a servicer becomes involved at an earlier stage of delinquency with workout programs and credit counseling, there is a greater likelihood that the loan will not go to foreclosure and we will not be forced to pay a claim. During periods of increased delinquencies, it becomes extremely important that the servicer be properly staffed and trained to assist borrowers to avoid foreclosure. From our perspective, it is also extremely important to involve us as part of the loss mitigation effort as early as possible. If some of the loan servicers do not properly staff and train their personnel or enlist our assistance in loss mitigation efforts, then the number of loans going to foreclosure may increase, resulting in a greater number of claims and/or a larger amount that we are required to pay, which will have an adverse impact on our future operating results. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain additional capital resources or if losses continue for an extended period of time and the outlook for mortgage insurers remains uncertain, then we may be unable to retain key personnel from moving to other industries that may appear to offer a more promising outlook. We have taken actions to reduce underwriting offices and personnel in response to the turbulent state of the current mortgage marketplace and our significant operating losses during 2007. Recent capital enhancement efforts have introduced some level of uncertainty among employees. Additionally, the outlook for mortgage insurers remains uncertain, and we may be unable to retain key personnel from moving to other industries that may offer better short-term opportunities and a more promising outlook. The loss of any key personnel could limit our ability to execute key strategic plans, including enhancement of our capital resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 