Risk Factors Our results could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements made by us in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” or elsewhere. Investors should consider these factors carefully in reading this annual report on Form 10-K. We reported a deficit in assets under GAAP at December 31, 2009 of $706 million. In order to overcome this deficit in assets, our future net income on the remaining insurance in force must exceed $706 million during the run-off period. There is substantial risk that the future net income during the run-off period will not exceed this amount, which could result in the institution of receivership proceedings for Triad and subsequently could lead us to institute a proceeding seeking relief from creditors under U.S. bankruptcy laws. During 2009, our GAAP net loss for the year amounted to $596 million, which resulted in an accumulated deficit in assets of $706 million at December 31, 2009. In order to overcome this deficit in assets, our future revenue in run-off must exceed future losses and expenses by at least $706 million. Our total operating revenue, excluding realized investment gains and losses, declined to $236 million in 2009 from $297 million in 2008. Because we no longer write new mortgage insurance, we project our revenue will continue to decline as our insurance in force declines. Total losses and expenses also declined in 2009 to $849 million from $1,025 million in 2008. The uncertainty concerning future defaults makes it difficult to accurately predict the amount of our future losses and expenses, particularly in later years. One of the most significant components of our net loss has been the increase in the reserve for losses. We calculate our best estimate of the reserve for losses to provide for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on loans reported in default, and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us, as of the date of our financial statements. Our reserving process incorporates various components in a model that gives effect to current economic conditions and segments defaults by a variety of criteria. Frequency and severity are the two most significant assumptions in the establishment of our loss reserves. During 2009, we refined both the frequency and severity factors based upon actual settled loss development over the past year, and our expectation for future development. Economic conditions in the housing and mortgage industries continue to be depressed and we do not anticipate a meaningful recovery in the near-term. As a result of the current economic conditions, our loss mitigation opportunities remain limited. The actual amount of our claim settlements may be substantially different from our loss reserve estimates. Our estimates could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, further declines in home prices, specifically in certain geographic regions that have experienced only modest declines to date, continuing increases in the unemployment rate, and a decrease in the realized rescission rates compared to those utilized in our reserve methodology. Changes to our estimates of reserves could result in a significant impact to our results of operations and our deficit in assets, even in a stable economic environment. If we are unable to satisfy TGI’s future debt service obligations, TGI would likely be forced to seek bankruptcy protection, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and would effectively eliminate all remaining stockholder value. In 1998, TGI completed a $35.0 million private offering of notes with a single maturity of January 15, 2028. TGI contributed $25.0 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the notes to Triad in exchange for a surplus note. The $35.0 million outstanding long-term debt and $2.8 million annual debt service are the obligations of TGI and not Triad. Historically, the primary source of funds for the TGI debt service has been the $2.2 million of interest paid annually by Triad to TGI on the $25.0 million surplus note. The terms of the $25.0 million surplus note at Triad restrict the accrual or payment of interest if the statutory surplus at the time the scheduled interest payment is due falls below the level of the statutory surplus at origination of the surplus note. In the second quarter of 2008, the statutory surplus fell below the balance at origination of the surplus note and has remained below the balance, effectively prohibiting the payment of interest. Additionally, the Corrective Orders prohibit the payment of interest or principal on the surplus note without the prior approval of the Department. TGI has limited assets and even more limited sources of revenues. At this time, we do not expect that TGI will receive any further interest payments from Triad on the surplus note for the foreseeable future. In 2009, TGI wrote off the $25 million surplus note and reversed 16 Table of Contents accrued interest of $4.4 million on its financial statements as an other-than-temporary impairment. This other-than-temporary impairment did not affect TGI’s consolidated results of operations. Without the payment of interest from Triad on the $25.0 million surplus note, TGI’s ability to pay its $2.8 million annual debt service obligation is limited to its cash and invested assets, which amounted to an aggregate of approximately $8.7 million as of December 31, 2009. Unless other sources of funds are obtained by TGI, TGI will likely default in the payment of interest due under its $35 million notes within the next three years. Additionally, Triad has historically reimbursed TGI for operating expenses incurred on behalf of the operating subsidiary under terms of a capital management agreement. Terms of the Corrective Orders require the approval of the Department for all intercompany transactions. Excluding the annual debt service obligations of $2.8 million, TGI’s cash expenses for 2009 were approximately $1.9 million and all requested reimbursements were approved by the Department. However, if we are unable to obtain the Department’s approval for Triad to reimburse future operating costs of TGI, then the limited assets of TGI will dissipate at a much greater pace, which would further jeopardize the ability of TGI to make the required interest payments on its $35.0 million notes. If TGI is unable to make the required debt service payments to the holders of the notes, it may be forced to seek protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. A bankruptcy filing by TGI would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and would likely eliminate all remaining stockholder value. Triad is operating under two Corrective Orders issued by the Department. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject Triad to further legal proceedings. Triad has entered into two Corrective Orders with the Department. The first Corrective Order was entered into on August 5, 2008 and was implemented as a result of our decision to cease writing new mortgage guaranty insurance and to commence a run-off of our existing insurance in force. The second Corrective Order became effective on March 31, 2009, as amended on May 26, 2009, and was implemented in anticipation of Triad reporting a deficiency in policyholders’ surplus under SAP at March 31, 2009 and to prevent the Department from having to seek receivership of Triad following the reporting of those results. These Corrective Orders, among other things, include restrictions on the distribution of dividends or interest on notes payable to TGI by Triad, allow management to continue to operate Triad under close supervision, and include restrictions on the payment of claims. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders or any other violation of the Illinois Insurance Code may result in the imposition of fines or penalties or subject Triad to further legal proceedings, including receivership proceedings for the conservation, rehabilitation or liquidation of Triad. If the Department were to seek receivership of Triad, TGI could be compelled to institute a proceeding seeking relief from creditors under U.S. bankruptcy laws which would likely eliminate all remaining stockholder value. The adverse conditions in the housing and mortgage markets and the high level of unemployment continue to have a negative impact on the development of the loans we insure. Although we regularly review and consider our methodology for recording our loss reserve estimates, these estimates are subject to uncertainties and are based on assumptions that we are required to make during this time of substantial economic uncertainty. As a result, settled claims may ultimately be substantially different than the loss reserves that we have recorded and such differences may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Cure rates over the last year have decreased dramatically from the previous historically low levels of 2008. Additionally, during 2009 default rates increased and home price declines outside of our traditional distressed markets accelerated. In response to these developing economic trends, in 2009 we raised the frequency and severity assumptions utilized in our methodology for recording loss reserve estimates. Although our recorded loss reserves at December 31, 2009 reflect our best estimates as of such date, settled claims could be substantially different from the loss reserves that have been recorded and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate our best estimate of the reserve for losses to provide for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on loans reported in default, and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us, as of the date of our financial statements. Our reserving process incorporates various components in a model that gives effect to current economic conditions and segments defaults by a variety of criteria. The criteria include, among others, 17 Table of Contents policy year, lender, geography, the number of months the loan has been in default, the probability the policy may be rescinded for underwriting violations, as well as whether the defaults were underwritten as flow business or as part of a structured bulk transaction. Frequency and severity are the two most significant assumptions in the establishment of our loss reserves. Frequency is used to estimate the ultimate number of paid claims associated with the current inventory of loans in default. The frequency estimate assumes that historical experience, taking into consideration criteria such as those described in the preceding paragraph, and adjusted for current economic conditions that we believe will significantly impact the long-term loss development, provides a reasonable basis for forecasting the number of claims that will be paid. An important consideration in determining the frequency factor is the cure rate. In general, the cure rate is the percentage of reported defaults that ultimately are brought current (1) through payments of all past due amounts or (2) by disposing of the property securing the mortgage before foreclosure with no claim ever being filed because the proceeds of the sale satisfied the mortgage. During 2009, our cure rate continued its decline as home prices declined or remained depressed and the ability to dispose of the property through a sale before foreclosure diminished. If our assumptions regarding anticipated cure rates as well as other considerations used in the frequency factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. A growing consideration in the establishment of our frequency factor assumptions during 2009 was the impact of rescissions. Generally, a loan that is reported to be in default within the first 23 months of insurance is classified as an Early Payment Default (EPD) although we may investigate certain loans in default for non-compliance with programs, fraud or misrepresentation without regard to the length of time since the loan was insured. Terms of our master policies allow us to rescind coverage on an EPD for fraud or program violations that occurred during the mortgage loan origination process. When a certificate is rescinded, the treatment is similar to a cure for reserving purposes and we no longer provide a reserve on that loan. Due to the unusually high levels of rescissions on EPDs for which we have completed our investigation, our reserving methodology incorporates an expected rescission percentage on the EPDs that we are in the process of investigating. If our assumptions regarding anticipated rescission rates used in the frequency factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional subsequent charge to results of operations. Severity is the estimate of the dollar amount per claim that will be paid. The severity factors are estimates of the percentage of the risk in default that will ultimately be paid. The severity factors used in setting loss reserves are based on an analysis of the severity rates of recently paid claims, applied to the risk in force of the loans currently in default. An important component in the establishment of the severity factor is the expected value of the underlying home for a loan in default compared to the outstanding mortgage loan amount. If our assumptions regarding anticipated house prices as well as other considerations used in the severity factor vary from those actually experienced in the future, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may exceed the reserves that we have established and require an additional charge to results of operations. The frequency and severity factors are updated quarterly to respond to the most recent data. The estimation of loss reserves requires assumptions as to future events, and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these assumptions. Economic conditions that have affected the development of loss reserves in the past may not necessarily affect development patterns in the future in either a similar manner or degree. To the extent that possible future adverse economic conditions such as declining cure rates or declining housing prices alter those historical frequency and severity patterns, actual paid claims on the existing delinquent loans may be greater than the reserves that we have provided and require a charge to results of operations. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This uncertainty is based on the ability of Triad to comply with the provisions of the Corrective Orders, our recurring losses from operations and our deficit in assets at December 31, 2009. Our financial statements included in this annual report do not include any adjustments relating 18 Table of Contents to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm dated March 17, 2010 on our consolidated financial statements for the two years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 notes that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our information technology and operating platform to Essent Guaranty, Inc. (“Essent”), a new mortgage insurer, for up to $30 million in cash and the assumption by Essent of certain contractual obligations. Furthermore, a number of our former information technology and operations employees have joined Essent. Under a services agreement, Essent is to provide us with ongoing information technology services, customer service and policy administration support. This transaction provides for potential additional risk including: (1) the future collection of both the fixed and contingent payments; and (2) the outsourcing of services vital to an efficient run-off. Under the terms of the agreement, Essent acquired all of our proprietary mortgage insurance software and substantially all of the supporting hardware, as well as certain other assets, in exchange for up to $30 million in cash and the assumption by Essent of certain contractual obligations. Approximately $15 million of the consideration is fixed and up to an additional $15 million is contingent on Essent writing a certain minimum amount of insurance in the five-year period following closing. If Essent is unable to write this minimum amount, we would not receive the additional $15 million of the contingent purchase price which could impact our future cash flows. As part of our agreement with Essent, substantially all of our former information technology, customer service, and policy administration support employees have joined Essent. Under a services agreement, these along with other Essent employees will provide ongoing information systems maintenance and services, customer service and policy administration support to Triad while also providing these services for Essent. These services are vital to our success in run-off and we no longer have direct management over these employees. While the services agreement contains service level requirements and other terms designed to ensure sufficient performance, the enforcement of such conditions could prove difficult and costly. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely impacted if the services provided are insufficient or not provided in a timely manner. Our financial condition at December 31, 2009 has benefited substantially from significant rescission activity and denial of claims. If we do not continue to realize benefits from rescissions and denials at similar levels, or our ability to rescind or deny coverage were successfully challenged in litigation, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a significant increase in recent years in rescission activity and, to a lesser extent, claim denials and expect to rescind additional policies and deny claims in the future as we continue to investigate early payment defaults and identify instances of fraud, misrepresentation or other violations of our master policies. There can be no assurance that future rescissions and denials, which have positively impacted the level of our loss reserves at December 31, 2009, will continue to be realized at levels similar to 2009. Any decision to rescind coverage may be challenged by the policyholder. Challenges to our decision to rescind or deny coverage may occur months or years after such decision was made and policyholders may challenge a decision multiple times. The increased level of rescission and denial activity by mortgage insurers has caused certain policyholders and loan servicers to institute legal actions to challenge the validity of rescissions and claim denials, and we are currently a defendant in two such proceedings. On December 11, 2009, American Home Mortgage Servicing filed a complaint against Triad for damages, declaratory relief, and injunction in the United States District Court, Northern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Triad denied payment on legitimate claims on 15 mortgage insurance loans and seeks damages, a declaration that our mortgage insurance policies prohibit denial of claim without evidence of harm, and an injunction against future like denials. On March 5, 2010, Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the Los Angeles County Superior Court of the State of California alleging breach of contract and seeking a declaratory judgment that bulk rescissions of flow loans is improper and that Triad is improperly rescinding loans under the terms of its master policies. 19 Table of Contents We believe it is likely that other lenders and mortgage servicers will challenge the ability of mortgage insurers to rescind and deny coverage, including the filing of additional lawsuits. While we intend to vigorously defend the two lawsuits described above and believe our rescissions and claim denials are wholly permissible under the terms of our master policies, other program documents and applicable law, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in the defense of these suits. An adverse court declaratory judgment regarding the interpretation of a master policy provision or the impermissibility of basing a rescission or claim denial on particular originator, lender or servicer conduct could set a precedent that has the effect of significantly restricting or limiting our ability to rescind policies and deny coverage of claims. This could result not only from legal proceedings in which we are the defendant, but also from suits pending against other mortgage insurers that are addressing policy provisions or the permissibility of rescission and denial practices that are similar to our own. Our liquidity, cash flow and financial performance would be adversely affected if our ability to rescind coverage or deny claim liability is materially limited or impaired in the future as a result of these legal challenges by policyholders and servicers. Our operating cash flow consists of net premium received plus investment income less losses and expenses paid. In 2009, we experienced a deficit in operating cash flow of $135 million. We have repositioned our investment portfolio in an attempt to match anticipated maturities with our expected cash flow needs. If the proceeds from maturities of securities coupled with other sources are insufficient to cover operating cash flow deficits, we could be forced to liquidate securities which, depending on market conditions, may result in unanticipated realized investment losses. As it became evident early in 2008 that we would no longer be able to achieve tax benefits from the tax-exempt income provided by municipal securities, we developed a strategy to liquidate those securities and convert to higher-yielding taxable bonds. At the same time we were repositioning the portfolio to a higher yielding taxable portfolio, we also shortened the maturity of our portfolio to better match our expected cash needs resulting from the anticipated increase in claims. If our planned matching of investment maturities to anticipated cash needs fails to provide sufficient cash flow, then we could be forced to liquidate securities prior to maturity, which may result in unanticipated realized investment losses. Consistent with industry practice, we provide reserves only for loans in default rather than on our estimate of the ultimate loss for all insured loans. As such, our results of operations in certain periods could be disproportionately affected by the timing of reported defaults. Reserves are provided for the estimated ultimate costs of settling claims on both loans reported in default and loans in default that are in the process of being reported to us. We generally do not establish reserves until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two payments when due. During 2009, the loans in default reported to us for which we provide gross reserves grew by 17,489 (43% increase) to 57,775 at December 31, 2009. GAAP precludes us from establishing loss reserves for future claims on insured loans that are not currently in default. As a result, our financial statements do not reflect our expected loss from policies not in default. An increase in the number of loans in default would require additional reserves and a charge to results of operations as they are reported to us. Since 2007, the United States housing market has experienced a significant amount of home price depreciation which has had a direct negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2009, home prices continued to decline in the first half of the year, and while the decline moderated in the second half of the year, home prices generally remained depressed in most markets. If home prices continue to decline on a more significant or expanded geographic basis than what we have experienced to date, we may incur a higher level of losses from paid claims and also be required to increase our loss reserves on those defaults reported to us at December 31, 2009. Previously, a primary component of our loss mitigation efforts included selling a property prior to foreclosure as well as purchasing the property in lieu of paying the coverage percentage specified in the insurance policy. The decline in home prices has negatively affected both of these mitigation options as the fair value of many of the borrowers’ homes is actually less than the outstanding mortgage. If home values fail to appreciate or decline on a more significant and expanded geographic basis, the frequency of loans going into default and eventually resulting in a paid claim could increase and our ability to mitigate our losses on mortgages may be further reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our business is sensitive to interest rates, a large increase in rates would cause higher monthly mortgage payments for certain borrowers that could potentially lead to a greater number of defaults, which would adversely impact our business. At December 31, 2009, approximately 27.5% of our Primary gross risk in force and approximately 67.8% of our Modified Pool gross risk in force was comprised of adjustable-rate mortgage loans or “ARMs.” Monthly payments on these loans are altered periodically through an adjustment of the interest rate. Many ARMs have a fixed interest rate for a stated period of time before being subjected to interest rate adjustments. As a result, some ARMs that we insure have not yet been subject to an interest rate adjustment. In periods of rising interest rates, a borrower’s monthly payment with an ARM will most likely increase. A large increase in interest rates over a short period of time could lead to “payment shocks” for borrowers that could potentially lead to more reported defaults. At December 31, 2009, approximately 11.0% of our Primary gross risk in force and 14.1% of our Modified Pool gross risk in force was comprised of pay option ARMs with the potential for negative amortization on the loan. These loans provide borrowers the option, for a stated period of time, to make monthly payments that do not cover the interest due on the loan. If the borrower chooses this payment option, the unpaid interest is added to the outstanding loan amount, which creates negative amortization. These pay option ARM loans may have a heightened propensity to default because of possible “payment shocks” after the initial low-payment period expires and because the borrower does not automatically build equity through loan amortization as payments are made. We already have experienced a substantially higher default rate on pay option ARMs than the remainder of our portfolio, even before many of these loans were scheduled to shift to amortizing payments. The risk of default may be further increased if the interest rate paid during the payment option period is significantly below current market rates. Additionally, the lack of long-term historical performance data associated with pay option ARMs across all market conditions makes it difficult to project performance and could increase the volatility of the estimates used in our reserve models. If interest rates increase and cause “payment shocks” to borrowers with ARMs, our default rate could increase, and this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Geographic concentration of our risk in force in certain distressed markets has resulted in increased defaults and higher risk in default from the significantly larger balances on mortgage loans in these states. Ongoing house price depreciation in these distressed markets could lead to further increases in reserves and paid claims, which could further negatively impact our financial performance. At December 31, 2009, our risk in force for California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada, which we classify as “distressed markets,” represented approximately 32% of our gross risk in force on a per policy basis. These distressed markets have experienced some of the most rapid home price depreciation since 2007 coupled with some of the highest foreclosure rates when compared to the rest of the country. Moreover, they represented 53% of our risk in default and 55% of our gross loss reserves. The default rate at December 31, 2009 in these distressed markets was 36.7% compared to 14.9% for the remainder of our portfolio excluding these distressed markets. If the housing markets remain at these depressed levels or drop further due to anticipated additional foreclosures for an extended period of time, we could experience even greater additional adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition due to the large concentration of our business in these distressed markets. A large portion of our insurance in force consists of loans with high loan-to-value ratios, which could result in a greater number of defaults and larger claims than loans with lower loan-to-value ratios during and following periods of declining home prices. At December 31, 2009, approximately 17.3% of our mortgage insurance in force consisted of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination greater than 95%. During and following periods of rapidly declining home prices such as occurred in 2007 and 2008, these loans have a greater propensity to default due to the decline in borrower’s equity. Loans with greater than 95% LTV at origination have experienced a significantly greater default rate than lower LTVs as of December 31, 2009. Many of the high LTV loans also contain other risk factors such as geographic location in distressed markets and were originated with reduced documentation. Faced with mortgages that are greater than the value of the home, a number of borrowers are simply abandoning the property and walking away from the mortgage, without regard to their ability to pay. This limits the ability of the servicer to work with the borrowers to avoid defaults and foreclosure and increases the imbalance of the housing inventory for sale, which in 21 Table of Contents turn further depresses home prices. If we are required to pay a claim on a high LTV loan, our loss mitigation opportunities are limited during these periods of declining home prices and we generally are required to pay the full option payment, which is the highest amount that we could pay under our contracts with lenders. If we experience an increased rate of default and paid claims on high LTV loans, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance policies or adjust renewal premiums due to changing economic conditions, unanticipated defaults and claims could cause our financial performance to suffer significantly. We generally cannot cancel the mortgage insurance coverage that we provide or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy, even as economic factors change. As a result, the impact of unanticipated changes, such as declining home prices and high levels of unemployment, generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to our customers, especially in distressed financial markets. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated defaults and claims could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results because we could not cancel existing policies or increase renewal premiums. Our loss experience may increase as our policies continue to age. Historically, we expected the majority of claims on insured loans in our portfolio to occur during the second through the fifth years after loan origination. However, in recent years, we experienced an earlier default and claim pattern. Previously, almost all of our loss experience would be complete after the fifth year as rising home prices over a five year period generally provided the borrower with enough equity to avoid foreclosure. However, with the unprecedented decline in home prices over the past three years, many borrowers now find themselves with no remaining equity, even with a significant down payment at origination. During 2009, we had an increase in the default rates for the 2003 through 2005 vintage years, which are books of business where previously we were expecting declines in the default rates. We believe our loss experience may increase as our policies age as a result of the significant decline in house prices over the last three years. If the claim frequency on our risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting our premium rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we failed to properly underwrite mortgage loans when we provided contract underwriting services, we may be required to provide monetary and other remedies to the customer. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agreed to indemnify the participating lender against losses incurred in the event that we failed to properly underwrite a loan in accordance with the lender’s underwriting guidelines, subject to contractual limitations on liability. The indemnification may be in the form of monetary or other remedies. As a result, we assumed risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. Factors that could affect the performance of loans for which we contract underwrote, including but not limited to worsening economic conditions and falling home prices, could cause our contract underwriting liabilities to increase and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have established a reserve to provide for potential claims in connection with our contract underwriting services, we have limited historical experience in establishing reserves for these potential liabilities, and these reserves may not be adequate to cover liabilities that may arise. If our lender partners for which we have entered into captive reinsurance arrangements cannot or choose not to fulfill their financial obligations, our benefits under the captive reinsurance treaties will be limited to the trust balances maintained within the reinsurance structures, which could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations. An integral component of the reinsurance treaties includes trust accounts, which are established to support a portion of the reinsurer’s obligations. As defaults increase and we reach the point where the attachment point is exceeded for individual vintage years, we cede reserves to the captive. When reserves are initially ceded to the captive, the requirement for additional trust balances generally increases. When the need for additional trust balances cannot be met through ceded reinsurance premiums, terms of our captive risk-sharing arrangements generally do not require additional capital contributions by the lender. Most lenders have not contributed any 22 Table of Contents additional capital that would allow these captive reinsurance structures to remain viable. As a result, at December 31, 2009, approximately $131 million of additional reserves could have been ceded to lender captives if they had contributed more capital. We expect these captive structures will be of limited benefit going forward and, as a result, could have adverse financial results on our operations. Loan servicers have experienced a significant increase in their workload due to the rapid growth in defaults and foreclosures. If the loan servicer fails to act proactively with delinquent borrowers in an effort to avoid foreclosure, then the number of delinquent loans eventually resulting in a paid claim could increase. The loan servicer maintains the primary contact with the borrowers throughout the life of the loan but we can become involved with any potential loss mitigation. During periods of declining home prices and increased delinquencies, such as that currently being experienced in the mortgage business, it is important to us that the servicer is proactive in dealing with borrowers rather than simply allowing the loan to go to foreclosure. Historically, when a servicer becomes involved at an earlier stage of delinquency with workout programs and credit counseling, there is a greater likelihood that the loan will not go to foreclosure and will not result in a claim. During periods of increasing delinquencies, it becomes extremely important that the servicer be properly staffed and trained to assist borrowers to avoid foreclosure. From our perspective, it is also extremely important to involve us as part of the loss mitigation effort as early as possible. If loan servicers do not properly staff and train their personnel or enlist our assistance in loss mitigation efforts, then the number of loans going to foreclosure may increase, resulting in a greater number of claims that we are required to pay, which will have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Triad is operating in run-off under Corrective Orders from the Department and the outlook for the legacy mortgage insurance industry remains uncertain. Maintaining experienced staff is critical to achieving a successful run-off. We undertook significant actions in 2008 to eliminate all sales, marketing, and underwriting personnel as well as a number of personnel supporting those functions as we transitioned into run-off. In order to retain our key personnel, we have established a severance plan and a retention plan, both of which currently expire in 2012. The very nature of run-off, as well as the ongoing negative news related to the mortgage markets, has introduced a heightened level of stress and uncertainty among our remaining employees. If we fail to adopt or gain approval from the Department to replace severance or retention plans, we may be unable to keep key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could limit our ability to properly execute an efficient and effective run-off. Loan modification and other similar programs may not provide material benefits to us. The U.S. Treasury as well as several lenders have adopted programs to modify loans to make them more affordable to borrowers with the goal of reducing the number of foreclosures. At December 31, 2009, we had been notified of modifications involving loans with risk in force of approximately $263 million. One such program is the HAMP, which was announced by the US Treasury in early 2009. Some of HAMP’s eligibility criteria require current information about borrowers, such as their current income and non-mortgage debt payments. Because the GSEs and servicers do not share such information with us, we cannot adequately determine with any degree of certainty the number of loans in our delinquent inventory that are eligible to participate in HAMP. Further, it takes several months from the time a borrower has made all of the payments during HAMP’s three month “trial modification” period for the loan to be reported to us as a cured delinquency. We have been notified that approximately 8,000 of the loans that we insure were in some stage of participation in HAMP, although very few have successfully completed the trial modification period. We rely on information concerning HAMP provided to us by the GSEs and servicers. We do not receive all of the information from such sources that is required to determine with certainty the number of loans that are participating in, or have successfully completed, HAMP. Even if a loan is modified, the effect on us of loan modifications depends on how many modified loans subsequently re-default, which in turn can be affected by changes in house prices. Re-defaults can result in losses for us that could be greater than we would have paid had the loan not been modified. Currently, we cannot predict with a high degree of confidence what the ultimate re-default rate will be, and, therefore, we cannot ascertain with confidence whether these programs will provide material benefits to us. In addition, because we do not know all of the parameters used to determine which loans are eligible for modification programs, our estimates of the number of 23 Table of Contents loans qualifying for modification programs are inherently uncertain. If legislation is enacted to permit a mortgage balance to be reduced in bankruptcy, we would still be responsible to pay the original balance if the borrower re-defaulted on that mortgage after its balance had been reduced. Various government entities and private parties have enacted foreclosure moratoriums. A moratorium does not affect the accrual of interest and other expenses on a loan. Unless a loan is modified during a moratorium to cure the default, at the expiration of the moratorium additional interest and expenses would be due which could result in our losses on loans subject to the moratorium being higher than if there had been no moratorium. We delisted our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) on December 28, 2009 and our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and the Pink Sheets® Electronic OTC Market (“Pink Sheets”). Our move from NASDAQ to the OTCBB and Pink Sheets could result in reduced liquidity for our stockholders or otherwise make it more difficult for them to execute transactions in our common stock. NASDAQ is a stock exchange that has specific quantitative and qualitative listing and maintenance standards. Companies listed on NASDAQ have reporting obligations and maintain an ongoing regulatory relationship with NASDAQ. The OTCBB and the Pink Sheets facilitate quotation of securities not listed on an exchange and have very few quantitative or qualitative listing or maintenance standards, although companies traded on the OTCBB must remain current in their filings with the SEC. Since December 28, 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock has decreased by approximately 77% compared to the year-to-date period ended December 24, 2009. Furthermore, our common stock has experienced large relative price swings on minimal volume since delisting. We believe the liquidity of our common stock has been adversely affected as a result of the delisting from NASDAQ and it has become more difficult for investors to trade our common stock. If the small trading volumes on the OTCBB and Pink Sheets persist or decline even further, our stockholders could face periods of reduced liquidity for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 