Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of certain significant risk factors that could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, performance and prospects. Our products must gain market acceptance for us to increase revenue. Any product that we sell or develop must compete for market acceptance and market share. An important factor will be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we and competing companies can develop products, complete any required approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important element of market success. Significant competitive factors include: ● timing and scope of regulatory approval; ● product availability; ● awareness and acceptance of our products and their application; ● channels to market; ● marketing and sales capabilities; ● product attributes relative to their cost; ● price; and ● exclusivity, through patent protection or otherwise. The Company may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. As a result of market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. Concern about the general stability of the markets has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide, funding to borrowers. Our ability to utilize our current credit facility and to secure additional financing, as necessary, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time, will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to develop new or enhance our existing products or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current U.S. and global economic crisis may have a significant adverse effect on our business. With the recent and significant deterioration of economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on demand for the products of many businesses, and the resulting impact on spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. This decline in demand may have a significant adverse effect on our business. 13 Our research, development and commercialization efforts may not succeed or our competitors may develop and commercialize more effective or successful diagnostic products. In order to remain competitive, we must regularly commit substantial resources to research and development and the commercialization of new products and/or antibody services. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from inception to commercial product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage there is a substantial risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product or technology platform in which we have invested substantial amounts. Other companies have products that compete with our products, and also may develop effective and commercially successful products. Our competitors may succeed in developing or commercializing products that are either more effective than ours, or that they market before we market new products that we may develop. There may be additional competitive products about which we are not aware. If our competitors are able to reach the commercial market before we are, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to reach the commercial market and sell our products. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in product development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to license proprietary technology. If we fail to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals necessary to sell our products, sales could be negatively impacted. Generally, at this time, our test kits do not require pre-market approval by the FDA or any other regulatory agency. However, agencies such as the EPA, FDA and the FSIS are engaged in testing environmental samples and, together with the AOAC, maintain compilations of official methods for use in testing for environmental contaminants in certain market segments, along with procedures and guidelines for validating new methods. The failure of these programs to accept the Company’s products could have an adverse impact on our business. The environmental legislation and regulations that the Company believes are most applicable to its current business are RCRA, CERCLA, TSCA, FIFRA and the Pure Food and Drug Act. For analysis of water and wastewater, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and the NPDES permitting program under the Clean Water Act also will be significant to the Company’s business. As the utility of the Company’s Microtox® products continues to be widely recognized in drinking water security applications, regulations and mandates associated with Homeland Security programs may also have an impact on our business. Although our products may not be regulated, the industry segments into which products are sold may be regulated, and demand for our products may be driven by these regulations or the lack thereof. These regulations vary from country to country. The regulatory environments in which we compete could change dramatically, which may require us to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals. If we do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals to enable us to market our products in the United States or elsewhere, or if the approvals are subject to significant restrictions, the demand for our products may be negatively impacted. If we do not match our product manufacturing capability to customer demand in a cost-effective manner, our product sales may suffer. Our product sales depend upon, among other things, our ability to manufacture our products in commercial quantities and in a cost-effective manner. To the extent there is a dramatic increase in demand for our products, we may not be able to manufacture the products in a quick and cost-effective manner. Our manufacturing success also depends, in part, on our ability to transition products from research and development into commercial scale manufacturing. If we are not successful in this transition, our ability to produce products may suffer. Our business could suffer if we cannot attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel, including our current executive officers and other key employees. If such executive officers or other key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s growth depends on its ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees, and on the ability of its officers and key employees to manage growth successfully. 14 It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we cannot ensure the protection of these rights; we may be sued by others for infringing their intellectual property rights. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. The patent positions of technology driven companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in our patents. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products and technologies that are similar, identical or competitive to ours, or important to our business. We cannot be certain that any patent application owned by a third party will not have priority over patent applications filed or licensed by us, or that we or our licensors will not be involved in interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Although no third party claims of infringement are outstanding against the Company, others may hold proprietary rights that will prevent our product candidates from being marketed unless we can obtain a license to those proprietary rights. Any patent related legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes could subject us to potential liability for damages and require us to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We cannot predict whether we would prevail in any of these actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume substantial managerial and financial resources. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require certain employees and suppliers to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to protect adequately our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be imperiled. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease commercialization of our products. The testing and marketing of our products gives rise to an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease commercialization of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. In certain customer contracts we indemnify third parties for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnification obligations. 15 If we do not produce future taxable income, our ability to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards could be significantly reduced. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards, including those acquired in the Company’s past acquisitions, of approximately $15.2 million, which, if not utilized, begin to expire as follows: Year NOL (in thousands) 2010 $ 4,478 2017 760 2018 1,327 2019 550 2020 66 2021 56 2022 2,268 2024 2,033 2025 3 2026 1 2027 1 2028 3,638 Total $ 15,181 The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the “Act”) limits the annual use of net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards (after certain ownership changes, as defined by the Act). The application of these limits could significantly restrict our ability to utilize carryforwards. Certain of our total net operating loss carryforwards from 2001 and prior years are subject to limitations on their annual use since a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% has occurred within a three year period with respect to those net operating loss carryforwards. The Company is currently evaluating recent changes in ownership. If it is determined that an ownership change of more than 50% within a three year period did occur, as determined pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, substantially all of the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards could be subject to annual limitations on usage. Because U.S. tax laws limit the time period during which these carryforwards may be applied against future taxable income, we may not be able to take full advantage of these attributes for federal and state income tax purposes due to the annual limitation usage. Based on the best information available to us today, we may not have sufficient future taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards prior to their expiration, and we have established a full valuation allowance against these net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards for financial reporting purposes. Our results of operations may fluctuate, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: ● unanticipated events associated with regulatory changes; ● general economic conditions; ● acceptance of our products; ● the success of products competitive with ours; ● expenses associated with development and protection of intellectual property matters; ● establishing or maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; ● the timing of expenses related to commercialization of new products; ● seasonality; and ● the timing and success in building our distribution channels. 16 The results of our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may not meet expectations of securities analysts and investors. This may cause our stock price to be volatile. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We use radioactivity in conducting biological assays and we use solvents that could be flammable in conducting our research and development activities. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Our antibody production process utilizes various species of animals that could contract disease or die, interrupting business operations. Our antibody production process utilizes animals to produce antibodies. We cannot completely eliminate the risks of animals contracting disease or a disaster that could cause death to valuable production animals. Disease or death on a broad scale could interrupt business operations as animals are a key part of the antibody production operation. The difficulties of operating in international markets may harm sales of our products. Customers outside of the United States accounted for 25% and 22% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The majority of our sales transactions are in U.S. dollars, however, we received payments in British pounds sterling for approximately $3.0 million in sales from our foreign subsidiary. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate, and in which our products are sold. The types of risks that we face in international operations include, but are not limited to: ● the imposition of governmental controls; ● logistical difficulties in managing international operations; and ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales and operations may be limited or disrupted if we cannot successfully meet the challenges of operating internationally. Certain of our shareholders are able to significantly influence proposals for a change in control or other matters requiring a shareholder vote. Directly, or through entities that they control, members of our Board of Directors as of December 31, 2008 controlled approximately 29% of our common stock. Through entities that he controls, Steven R. Becker, who joined our Board effective March 12, 2008, controlled approximately 10.9% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. Due to this concentration of ownership, members of our Board, acting together or, in some cases, individually, can substantially influence all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including, without limitation: ● the election of directors; ● the amendment of our organizational documents; or ● the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. 17 Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board and removal of directors only for cause. Accordingly, stockholders may elect only a portion of our board at any annual meeting, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in management. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. Our issuance of additional preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby effect a change in the composition of our Board of Directors. Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations and permit only our President or a majority of the Board of Directors to call a special stockholder meeting. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that limit our ability to engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change of control of our company. Our stock has generally had low trading volume, and its public trading price has been volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $0.71 and $5.42 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the year of approximately 36,000 shares. The market may experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market state, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. This bid price listing standard has recently been suspended until April 2009. The bid price for our stock has been below $1.00 since November 2008. If we fail to comply with the listing standards applicable to issuers listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, including the bid price standard after April 20, 2009, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 