ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to a number of risks, including the risks set forth below. You should carefully consider these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently think are insignificant, may also adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our obligations under the December Debentures are secured by substantially all of our Assets which could cause our operations to cease if we default. Our obligations under the $4.5 million of secured convertible debentures (the "December Debentures"), issued to Cornell Capital Partners on December 30, 2005 are secured by substantially all of our assets. As a result, if we default under the terms of the December Debentures, Cornell Capital Partners could foreclose its security interest and liquidate substantially all of our assets. This would cause us to cease operations. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business. Although the Company earned its first revenues in 2004 and is no longer classified as a "developmental stage company", it has limited operating history, therefore, it remains subject to the inherent challenges and risks of establishing a new business enterprise. The Company may not be successful in addressing such risks. The limited operating history of the Company makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult or impossible. To date, production volumes of EarthShell Packaging products have been low relative to intended and necessary capacity of the manufacturing lines. The initial plates, bowls, and sandwich containers to be sold commercially were produced on lab equipment, pilot machinery, or first generation commercial equipment. Although we have produced and sold 40-50 million pieces, the commercial equipment envisioned by the Company that will allow for the manufacturing to be done profitably needed to be operated at higher speeds and good part throughput rates than was experienced during the early stages of production. Ultimately the Company discontinued production using the pilot and first generation equipment to allow Detroit Tool and Engineering Company ("DTE") to finish the machinery development to achieve the commercial levels of quality and throughput. As of December 31, 2005, the first modules of DTE equipment have been purchased by ReNewable Products, Inc. ("RPI"), as EarthShell's U.S. licensee, and are operational at commercial throughput rates. Production and distribution has begun and commercial quality product is beginning to be re-introduced into the market. The success of future operations depends upon the ability of RPI and other licensees to manufacture and sell EarthShell Packaging Products in sufficient quantities so as to be commercially feasible and then to distribute and sell those products at competitive prices. Consistent commercially feasible production volumes had not been achieved and assured competitive price figures had not yet been fully proven as of December 31, 2005. As a result of the foregoing factors, the Company expects to incur losses for at least the next 12 months and, depending on the success of the Company's products and services in the marketplace, for potentially an even longer period. We have a working capital deficit, which means that our current assets at December 31, 2005 were not sufficient to satisfy our current liabilities on that date 9 For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company had reported operating revenues of $0.1 million and aggregate net losses of approximately $7.3 million. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had reported operating revenues of $0.2 million and an aggregate net loss of approximately $6.2 million. Although the Company hopes to achieve break-even cash flow by the end of 2006, the Company does not expect to operate profitably during the current fiscal year. Although the Company is actively seeking equity financing to restructure the debt on its balance sheets and to meet its operating and capital needs, additional funding may not be available to the Company, and, even if it is available, such financing may be (i) extremely costly, (ii) dilutive to existing stockholders and/or (iii) restrictive to the Company's ongoing operations. If the Company is unable to obtain such additional capital, the Company may be required to reduce the scope of its anticipated expansion, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations or cease operations. We are the subject of a "Going Concern" Opinion from our Independent Auditors The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has incurred significant losses since inception, has minimal revenues and has a working capital deficit of $11,458,467 at December 31, 2005. These factors, along with others, raise substantial doubt as to whether the Company will be able to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months or less. The Company will have to raise additional funds to meet its current obligations and to cover operating expenses through the year ending December 31, 2006. If the Company is not successful in raising additional capital, it may not be able to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months or less. On August 22, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with EarthShell Asia (EA) in connection with the granting of certain licenses to use EarthShell Technology for various applications in certain Asian territories (the "EA License"). Shortly after executing a letter agreement, both the Company and EA entered into negotiations to restructure the transaction and ultimately entered into an amended and restated letter agreement dated December 9, 2005. As part of such restructuring, the Company may receive a total of up to $2.6 million from a combination of (i) prepaid technology fees (up to $1.7 million), (ii) the sale of up to 266,667 shares of its common stock and (iii) the issuance of 1,033,333 warrants to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at $3.90 per share, which, under certain circumstances, may be adjusted to an exercise price of not less than $3.00 per share. The realization of the full potential of the transaction is dependent on the Company successfully demonstrating the commercial viability of its technology in certain new applications. The Company received $0.5 million from EA as an initial partial payment and agreed to issue 166,667 shares of its common stock in connection with this payment. The Company received an additional $0.3 million in December 2005 and $0.1 million in February 2006 pursuant to the amended and restated agreement with EA dated December 9, 2005, but which was not effective until February 10, 2006 when the final cash payment was received. Under the amended and restated agreement, upon receipt of the final payment, the Company issued a total of 266,667 shares and the warrants to purchase the 1,033,333 shares. On October 11, 2005, EKI entered into an agreement with the Company to advance to it up to $1.0 million under the 2005 EKI Loan. On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement with Cornell Capital Partners whereby the Company received aggregate proceeds of $4.5 million on January 6, 2006 from the sale of the convertible debentures. Of the aggregate proceeds, approximately $2.6 million were used to payoff the existing $2.5 million promissory note to Cornell Capital Partners and others. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Additional financing may not be available to the Company, or, if available, the terms may not be satisfactory or if we may not receive any further technology fee payments in 2006 pursuant to its sublicense agreements. Management also plans to continue in its efforts to minimize expenses, but it may not be able to reduce expenses below current levels. The condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Management has identified the following material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting: o The Company has inadequate segregation of critical duties within each of its accounting processes and a lack of sufficient monitoring controls over these processes to mitigate this risk. The responsibilities assigned to one employee include maintaining the vendor master file, processing payables, creating and voiding checks, reconciling bank accounts, making bank deposits and processing payroll. o There are weaknesses in the Company's information technology controls which makes the Company's financial data vulnerable to error or fraud. Specifically, there is a lack of documentation regarding the roles and responsibilities of the IT function, lack of security management and monitoring and inadequate segregation of duties involving IT functions. 10 The departure of the Company's Controller in November 2004 resulted in the accounting and reporting functions being centralized under the Chief Financial Officer, with no additional personnel in the Company having an adequate knowledge of accounting principles and practices throughout most of 2005. In addition, the Company relocated its headquarters and accounting systems from Santa Barbara, CA to Lutherville, MD in late 2005. As a result, some transactions were not recorded in a timely manner and adjustments to the financial statements were recorded that were considered material to the financial position at December 31, 2005 and results of operations for the year then ended. The Company has begun taking remediation steps to enhance its internal control over financial reporting and reduce control deficiencies in general, including the material weaknesses enumerated above. In the 4th Quarter 2005, the Company employed a new Controller, CPA, with 15 years' experience in public and private accounting. The new Controller is in the process of developing revised accounting systems and procedures that will strengthen the Company's controls over financial reporting. The Company anticipates hiring an additional accounting employee as resources become available. We need additional capital to finance our operating deficit and to fund capital requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had reported operating revenues of $0.2 million and aggregate net losses of approximately $6.2 million. Although the Company hopes to achieve break-even cash flow by the end of 2006, the Company does not expect to operate profitably during this fiscal year. Although the Company is actively seeking equity financing to restructure the debt on its balance sheets and to meet its operating and capital needs, additional funding may not be available to the Company, and, even if it is available, such financing may be (i) extremely costly, (ii) dilutive to existing stockholders and/or (iii) restrictive to the Company's ongoing operations. If the Company is unable to obtain such additional capital, the Company may be required to reduce the scope of its anticipated expansion, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations or cease operations. Our Common Stock is deemed to be a "Penny Stock," which may make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares The Company's common stock is no longer traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. SEC regulations generally define a "penny stock" to be any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Based upon the price of EarthShell common stock as currently traded, EarthShell common stock is subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers which sell securities to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors." For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received a purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, this rule may have a negative effect on the ability of stockholders to sell common shares of the Company in the secondary market. We are dependent on our licensees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business The Company's current business model is to license the manufacturing and distribution of EarthShell Packaging foodservice disposables to licensees. Agreements with the licensees permit them to manufacture and sell other foodservice disposable packaging products that are not based on EarthShell Packaging. The licensees may also manufacture paper or polystyrene packaging which could compete with EarthShell products, and they may not devote sufficient resources or otherwise be able successfully to manufacture, distribute or market EarthShell Packaging. Their failure to do so would be grounds for termination of exclusivity provisions in their license agreement, but might also delay the rollout of EarthShell Packaging into the marketplace, which could have an adverse affect on our business. We have not yet fully evaluated all of the EarthShell Packaging products and it is possible that some of the products may not perform as well as conventional products Although we believe that we can engineer EarthShell Packaging products to meet many of the critical performance requirements for specific applications, individual products may not perform as well as conventional foodservice disposables; for example, some consumers may prefer clear cups and clear lids on take-home containers which are not available with our foam technology. We are still developing many of our EarthShell Packaging products and we have not yet evaluated the performance of all of them. If we fail to develop EarthShell Packaging products that perform comparably to conventional foodservice disposables, this could cause consumers to prefer our competitors' products. 11 Established manufacturers in the foodservice disposables industry could improve their ability to recycle their existing products or develop new environmentally preferable disposable foodservice containers, which could render our technology obsolete and could negatively impact our ability to compete Competition among existing food and beverage container manufacturers in the foodservice industry is intense. Virtually all of the key participants in the industry have substantially greater financial and marketing resources at their disposal than we do, and many have well-established supply, production and distribution relationships and channels. Companies producing competitive products utilizing competitive materials may reduce their prices or engage in advertising or marketing campaigns designed to protect their respective market shares and impede market acceptance of EarthShell Packaging products. In addition, some of the Company's licensees and joint venture partners manufacture paper, plastic or foil packaging that may compete with EarthShell Packaging products. Several paper and plastic disposable packaging manufacturers and converters and others have made efforts to increase the recycling of these products. Increased recycling of paper and plastic products could lessen their harmful environmental impact, one major basis upon which the Company intends to compete. A number of companies have introduced or are attempting to develop biodegradable starch-based materials, plastics, or other materials that may be positioned as potential environmentally superior packaging alternatives. We expect that many existing packaging manufacturers may actively seek competitive alternatives to our products and processes. The development of competitive, environmentally attractive, disposable foodservice packaging, whether or not based on our products and technology, could render our technology obsolete and could impair our ability to compete, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our anticipated international revenues are subject to risks inherent in international business activities We expect sales of our products and services in foreign countries to account for a material portion of our revenues. These sales are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: o any adverse change in the political or economic environments in these countries; o economic instability; o any adverse change in tax, tariff and trade or other regulations; o the absence or significant lack of legal protection for intellectual property rights; o exposure to exchange rate risk for revenues which are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars; and o difficulties in managing joint venture businesses spread over various jurisdictions. Our revenues could be substantially less than we expect if these risks affect our ability to successfully sell our products in the international market. Our products may be perceived poorly by customers and/or environmental groups, which could have an adverse affect on our business Our success depends substantially on our ability to design and develop foodservice disposables that are not as harmful to the environment as conventional disposable foodservice containers made from paper, plastic and polystyrene. EarthShell has used a life cycle inventory methodology in its environmental assessment of EarthShell Packaging products and in the development of associated environmental claims, and we have received support for the EarthShell concept from a number of environmental groups. Although we believe that EarthShell Packaging products offer several environmental advantages over conventional packaging products, our products may also possess characteristics that consumers or some environmental groups could perceive as negative for the environment. In particular, EarthShell Packaging products may result in more solid waste by weight and, in a dry environment, by volume, and manufacturing them may release greater amounts of some pollutants and lesser amounts of other pollutants than occurs with conventional packaging. Whether, on balance, EarthShell Packaging products are better for the environment than conventional packaging products is a somewhat subjective judgment. Environmental groups, regulators, customers or consumers may not agree that present and future EarthShell Packaging products have an environmental advantage over conventional packaging. 12 Third parties may infringe the patents that we license, new products that we develop may not be covered by our licensed patents and we could suffer an adverse determination in a patent infringement proceeding, which could allow our competitors to duplicate our products without having incurred the research and development costs we have incurred and therefore allow them to produce and market those products more profitably Our ability to compete effectively with conventional packaging will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the licensed technology. Although EKI, the largest stockholder of the Company, and EarthShell endeavor to protect the licensed technology through, among other things, U.S. and foreign patents, the duration of these patents is limited and the patents and patent applications licensed to us may not be sufficient to protect our technology. The patents that EKI obtains and licenses to us may not be validly held and others may try to circumvent or infringe those patents. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we try to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our licensee manufacturers, proposed joint venture partners, employees and consultants. These agreements have limited terms and these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach and our competitors may learn our trade secrets or independently develop them. It is necessary for us to litigate from time to time to enforce patents issued or licensed to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how and to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We believe that we own or have the rights to use all of the technology that we expect to incorporate into EarthShell Packaging products, but an adverse determination in litigation or infringement proceedings to which we are or may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities and costs to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with those arrangements could be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we may not obtain the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms or at all. We could incur substantial costs attempting to enforce our licensed patents against third party infringement, or the unauthorized use of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how or in defending ourselves against claims of infringement by others. Accordingly, if we suffered an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failed to obtain necessary licenses, it would prevent us from manufacturing or licensing others to manufacture some of our products. Failure of our licensees to produce EarthShell Packaging products profitably on a commercial scale would adversely affect our ability to compete with conventional disposable foodservice packagers Production volumes of EarthShell Packaging products to date have been low relative to the intended capacity of the various manufacturing lines, and, until production volumes approach design capacity levels, actual costs and profitability will not be certain. Since the actual cost of manufacturing EarthShell Packaging products on a commercial scale has not been fully demonstrated, they may not be manufactured at a competitive cost. As our licensees and joint venture partners begin to commercially produce EarthShell Packaging products, they may encounter unexpected difficulties that cause production costs to exceed current estimates. The failure to manufacture EarthShell Packaging products at commercially competitive costs would make it difficult to compete with other foodservice disposable manufacturers. Unavailability of raw materials used to manufacture our products, increases in the price of the raw materials, or the necessity of finding alternative raw materials to use in our products could delay the introduction and market acceptance of our products Although we believe that sufficient quantities of all raw materials used in EarthShell Packaging products are generally available, if any raw materials become unavailable, it could delay the commercial introduction and hinder market acceptance of EarthShell Packaging products. In addition, our licensees and joint venture partners may become significant consumers of certain key raw materials such as starch, and if such consumption is substantial in relation to the available resources, raw material prices may increase which in turn may increase the cost of EarthShell Packaging products and impair our profitability. In addition, we may need to seek alternative sources of raw materials or modify our product formulations if the cost or availability of the raw materials that we currently use become prohibitive. If initial purchasers of the EarthShell Packaging products do not purchase significant quantities, it could delay the introduction and market acceptance of the products 13 It will be important for our licensees and joint venture partners to identify and obtain contractual commitments from major customers for substantial quantities of product. If initial purchasers of our products do not ultimately purchase significant quantities or continue to purchase on a repeat basis, it will delay our ability to realize meaningful royalty revenues from sales of those products. We do not own the technology necessary to manufacture EarthShell Packaging EarthShell Packaging is based primarily on patented composite material technology licensed on an exclusive worldwide basis from EKI, the largest stockholder of the Company, and to a lesser extent, on a limited exclusive, worldwide basis from the Biotec Group. The Company does not own the technology necessary to manufacture EarthShell Packaging and is dependent upon a license agreement with EKI (the "EKI Licensing Agreement") to use that technology. The licensed technology is limited to the development, manufacture and sale of specified foodservice disposables for use in the foodservice industry, and there is no right to exploit opportunities to apply this technology or improve it outside this field of use. If EKI were to file for or be declared bankrupt, the Company would likely be able to retain its rights under the EKI License Agreement with respect to U.S. patents; however, it is possible that steps could be taken to terminate its rights under the EKI License Agreement with respect to international patents. EKI is the largest stockholder of the Company, and conflicts could arise with regard to performance under the License Agreement, corporate opportunities or time devoted to the business of the Company by officers and employees of EKI. Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The manufacture, sale and use of EarthShell Packaging are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). The FDA's regulations are concerned with substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Thus, food and beverage containers are in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the food and beverage containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. The Company believes that EarthShell Packaging plates, bowls and hinged-lid containers and all other current and prototype EarthShell Packaging products of the Company are in compliance with all requirements of the FDA and do not require additional FDA approval. However, the FDA may not agree with these conclusions, which could have a material adverse affect on our business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 