Risk Factors Changes in the oil and natural gas markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting, production and storage of oil, petroleum products, LNG and LPG depend upon world and regional oil, petroleum and natural gas markets. Any decrease in shipments of oil, petroleum products, LNG or LPG in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, petroleum products, LNG or LPG, and competition from alternative energy sources. A slowdown of the U.S. and world economies may result in reduced consumption of oil, petroleum products and natural gas and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which would reduce vessel earnings. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings and profitability. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may cause significant increases or decreases in the revenue we earn from our vessels and may also cause significant increases or decreases in the value of our vessels. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings may decrease, particularly with respect to our spot tanker sub-segment, a subset of our conventional tanker segment, which accounted for approximately 7% of our net revenues during both 2013 and 2012. The spot-charter market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand, and declining spot rates in a given period generally will result in corresponding 9 Table of Contents declines in operating results for that period. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot-charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. Future spot rates may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot tanker market to operate profitably or to provide sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Reduction in oil produced from offshore oil fields could harm our shuttle tanker and FPSO businesses. As at December 31, 2013, we had 35 vessels operating in our shuttle tanker fleet, nine FPSO units operating in our FPSO fleet (of which one is operating in a joint venture) and one FPSO unit on order. Certain of our shuttle tankers and our FPSO units earn revenue that depends upon the volume of oil we transport or the volume of oil produced from offshore oil fields. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our control, including: • geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; • the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; and • operator decisions based on revenue compared to costs from continued operations. Factors that may affect an operator’s decision to initiate or continue production include: changes in oil prices; capital budget limitations; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; the quality of drilling prospects in the area; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil we transport may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills, operational difficulties, strikes, employee lockouts or other labor unrest. The rate of oil production at fields we service may decline from existing or future levels, and may be terminated, all of which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, if such a reduction or termination occurs, the spot tanker market rates, if any, in the conventional oil tanker trades at which we may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under contracts of affreightment, which would also harm our business and operating results. The redeployment risk of FPSO units is high given their lack of alternative uses and significant costs. FPSO units are specialized vessels that have very limited alternative uses and high fixed costs. In addition, FPSO units typically require substantial capital investments prior to being redeployed to a new field and production service agreement. Unless extended, certain of our FPSO production service agreements will expire during the next seven years. Our clients may also terminate certain of our FPSO production service agreements prior to their expiration under specified circumstances. Any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy the vessels at acceptable rates may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The duration of many of our shuttle tanker and FSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, we will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Some of our shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, we no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker and FSO contracts under which our vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If we are unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Charter rates for conventional oil and product tankers may fluctuate substantially over time and may be lower when we are attempting to re-charter conventional oil or product tankers, which could adversely affect our operating results. Any changes in charter rates for LNG or LPG carriers, shuttle tankers or FSO or FPSO units could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Our ability to re-charter our conventional oil and product tankers following expiration of existing time-charter contracts and the rates payable upon any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the state of the conventional tanker market. Conventional oil and product tanker trades are highly competitive and have experienced significant fluctuations in charter rates based on, among other things, oil, refined petroleum product and vessel demand. For example, an oversupply of conventional oil tankers can significantly reduce their charter rates. There also exists some volatility in charter rates for LNG and LPG carriers, shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units, which could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. Vessel values for oil and product tankers, LNG and LPG carriers and FPSO and FSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline from existing levels. If operation of a vessel is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered vessel at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a fair market value or the disposition of the vessel at a fair market value that is lower than its book value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. Vessel values, particularly of tankers, have declined over the past few years, and have contributed to charges against our earnings. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LPG, and LNG and LPG shipping, as well as offshore oil transportation, production, processing and storage services. A significant portion of our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG and LPG shipping sectors and on expansion in the FPSO, shuttle tanker, and FSO sectors. Expansion of the LNG and LPG shipping sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LPG and marine transportation of LNG and LPG, as well as the supply of LNG and LPG. Demand for LNG and LPG and for the marine transportation of LNG and LPG could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as increases in the costs of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally, increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, increases in the price of LNG and LPG relative to other energy sources, the availability of new energy sources, and negative global or regional economic or political conditions. Reduced demand for LNG or LPG and LNG or LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on future growth of our liquefied gas segment, and could harm that segment’s results. Growth of the LNG and LPG markets may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community and environmental group resistance to new LNG and LPG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. If the LNG or LPG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG or LPG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of the FPSO, shuttle tanker, and FSO sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: • decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; • increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; and • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, production, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The intense competition in our markets may lead to reduced profitability or reduced expansion opportunities. Our vessels operate in highly competitive markets. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies and independent companies. We also compete with owners of other size vessels. Our market share is insufficient to enforce any degree of pricing discipline in the markets in which we operate and our competitive position may erode in the future. Any new markets that we enter could include participants that have greater financial strength and capital resources than we have. We may not be successful in entering new markets. One of our objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate charters for our LNG and LPG carriers, shuttle tankers, FPSO and FSO units. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential LNG, LPG, FPSO, shuttle tanker and FSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Some of these competitors have greater experience in these markets and greater financial resources than do we. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience, will enter the LNG and LPG transportation, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents The loss of any key customer or its inability to pay for our services could result in a significant loss of revenue in a given period. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Three customers, international oil companies, accounted for an aggregate of 37%, or $677.3 million, of our consolidated revenues during 2013 (2012 – three customers for 38% or $760.3 million, 2011 – three customers for 35% or $698.9 million). The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer, or the inability of a significant customer to pay for our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. Economic downturns and financial crises in the global markets could produce illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If global financial markets and economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the future, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or bank lending, which may make it more difficult and costly to fund future growth. Decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. For further information about regulations affecting our business and related requirements on us, please read “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Operations—Regulations.” We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our strategy of growth through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. A principal component of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both in the geographic areas and markets where we have historically focused as well as into new geographic areas, market segments and services. We may not be successful in expanding our operations and any expansion may not be profitable. Recently, Teekay Offshore entered the long-haul ocean towage and offshore installation services business through its acquisition of ALP Maritime Services B.V. (or ALP) in March 2014. Our strategy of growth through acquisitions involves business risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, including: • interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of an acquired company’s businesses and our businesses; • additional demands on members of our senior management while integrating acquired businesses, which would decrease the time they have to manage our existing business, service existing customers and attract new customers; • difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and business culture of acquired companies; • difficulties of coordinating and managing geographically separate organizations; • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers and customers, and those of the companies acquired; • difficulties entering geographic markets or new market segments in which we have no or limited experience; and • loss of key officers and employees of acquired companies. Acquisitions may not be profitable to us at the time of their completion and may not generate revenues sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition, including risks that we may: fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost-savings, revenue and cash flow enhancements and earnings accretion; decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; incur additional indebtedness, which may result in significantly increased interest expense or financial leverage, or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions, which may result in significant shareholder dilution; incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business acquired; or incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. The strain that growth places upon our systems and management resources may harm our business. Our growth has placed, and we believe it will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. As we expand our operations, we must effectively manage and monitor operations, control costs and maintain quality and control in geographically dispersed markets. In addition, our three publicly-traded subsidiaries and TIL have increased our complexity and placed additional demands on our management. Our future growth and financial performance will also depend on our ability to recruit, train, manage and motivate our employees to support our expanded operations and continue to improve our customer support, financial controls and information systems. 12 Table of Contents These efforts may not be successful and may not occur in a timely or efficient manner. Failure to effectively manage our growth and the system and procedural transitions required by expansion in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or as a result of our operations. The operation of oil and product tankers, LNG and LPG carriers, and FPSO and FSO units is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risk) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not generally carry insurance on our vessels covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Any significant off-hire time of our vessels could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any claims relating to our operations covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill, marine disaster or natural disasters could result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Past port calls by our vessels, or third-party vessels from which we derived pooling revenues, to countries that are subject to sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union may impact investors’ decisions to invest in our securities. The United States government has imposed sanctions on Iran, Syria and Sudan. The European Union (or EU) has also imposed sanctions on trade with Iran. In the past, conventional oil tankers owned or chartered-in by us, or third-party vessels participating in commercial pooling arrangements from which we derive revenue, made limited port calls to those countries for the loading and discharging of oil products. Those port calls did not violate U.S. or EU sanctions at the time and we intend to maintain our compliance with all U.S. and EU sanctions. In addition, we have no future contracted loadings or discharges in any of those countries and intend not to enter into voyage charter contracts for the transport of oil or gas to or from Iran, Syria or Sudan. We believe that our compliance with these sanctions and our lack of any future port calls to those countries does not and will not adversely impact our revenues, because port calls to these countries have never accounted for any material amount of our revenues. However, some investors might decide not to invest in us simply because we have previously called on, or through our participation in pooling arrangements have previously received revenue from calls on, ports in these sanctioned countries. Any such investor reaction could adversely affect the market for our common shares. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disaster; • bad weather or natural disasters; • mechanical failures; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage or pollution; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. We operate our conventional tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling, which historically has increased oil price volatility and oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and stronger in our fiscal quarters ended March 31 and December 31. Due to harsh winter weather conditions, oil field operators in the North Sea typically schedule oil platform and other infrastructure repairs and maintenance during the summer months. Because the North Sea is our primary existing offshore oil market, this seasonal repair and maintenance activity contributes to quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations, as oil production typically is lower in the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30 in this region compared with production in the fiscal quarters ended March 31 and December 31. Because a number of our North Sea shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment, under which revenue is based on the volume of oil transported, the results of our shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea under these contracts generally reflect this seasonal production pattern. When we redeploy affected shuttle tankers as conventional oil tankers while platform maintenance and repairs are conducted, the overall financial results for our North Sea shuttle tanker operations may be negatively affected if the rates in the conventional oil tanker markets are lower than the contract of affreightment rates. In addition, we seek to coordinate some of the general dry docking schedule of our fleet with this seasonality, which may result in lower revenues and increased dry docking expenses during the summer months. We expend substantial sums during construction of newbuildings and the conversion of tankers to FPSO or FSO units without earning revenue and without assurance that they will be completed. We are typically required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding or vessel conversion, but we do not derive any revenue from the vessel until after its delivery. In addition, under some of our time charters if our delivery of a vessel to a customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, almost double the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional substantial liquidated charges. Our newbuilding financing commitments typically have been pre-arranged. However, if we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any of our newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. As of December 31, 2013, we had on order five LNG carriers, 12 LPG carriers, one FSO conversion, one planned FSO conversion and one FPSO unit. Two LNG carriers are scheduled for delivery in 2016 and three LNG carriers are scheduled for delivery in 2017. Three LPG carriers are scheduled for delivery in each of the years 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively. One FSO conversion is scheduled for completion in the third quarter of 2014, and the FPSO unit is scheduled for delivery in mid-2014 and to be on-hire in late-2014. As of December 31, 2013, progress payments made towards these newbuildings, excluding payments made by our joint venture partners, totaled $731.1 million. In addition, conversion of tankers to FPSO and FSO units expose us to a numbers of risks, including lack of shipyard capacity and the difficulty of completing the conversions in a timely and cost effective manner. During conversion of a vessel, we do not earn revenue from it. In addition, conversion projects may not be successful. We make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our financial leverage could increase or our stockholders could be diluted. We regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide the marine transportation requirements for various projects, and we have recently submitted bids to provide transportation solutions for LNG and LPG, FPSO and FSO projects. We may submit additional bids from time to time. The award process relating to LNG and LPG transportation, FPSO and FSO opportunities typically involves various stages and takes several months to complete. If we bid on and are awarded contracts relating to any LNG and LPG, FPSO and FSO projects, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to build the related LNG and LPG carriers, FPSO and FSO units. To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. Issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay quarterly dividends. Exposure to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations results in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Substantially all of our revenues are earned in U.S. Dollars, although we are paid in Euros, Australian Dollars, Norwegian Kroner and British Pounds under some of our charters. A portion of our operating costs are incurred in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. This partial mismatch in operating revenues and expenses leads to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the Norwegian Kroner, the Australian Dollar, the British Pound and the Euro. We also make payments under two Euro-denominated term loans. If the amount of these and other Euro-denominated obligations exceeds our Euro-denominated revenues, we must convert other currencies, primarily the U.S. Dollar, into Euros. An increase in the strength of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to convert more U.S. Dollars to Euros to satisfy those obligations. 14 Table of Contents Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies also result in fluctuations of our reported revenues and earnings. Under U.S. accounting guidelines, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the period. This revaluation historically has caused us to report significant unrealized foreign currency exchange gains or losses each period. The primary source of these gains and losses is our Euro-denominated term loans and our Norwegian Kroner-denominated bonds. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to economically hedge portions of our forecasted expenditures denominated in Norwegian Kroner. We also incur interest expense on our Norwegian Kroner-denominated bonds. We have entered into cross-currency swaps to economically hedge the foreign exchange risk on the principal and interest payments of our Norwegian Kroner bonds. Many of our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of our seafarers are employed under collective bargaining agreements. We may become subject to additional labor agreements in the future. We may suffer to labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. Our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or bi-annually for seafarers and annually for onshore operational staff and may increase our cost of operation. Any labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If crew costs increase, and we are not able to increase our rates to customers to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate charters, which would harm our cash flow and business. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia. While there continue to be significant numbers of piracy incidents in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean, recently there have been increases in the frequency and severity of piracy incidents off the coast of West Africa. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being named on the Joint War Committee Listed Areas, war risk insurance premiums payable for such coverage can increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ on-board security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, including by reducing the levels of oil exploration, development and production activities in these areas. We derive some of our revenues from shipping oil and gas from politically and economically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Hostilities, strikes, or other political or economic instability in regions where we operate or where we may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries in which we operate or to which we trade harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flow and financial results. Maritime claimants could arrest, or port authorities could detain, our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. In addition, port authorities may seek to detain our vessels in port, which could adversely affect our operating results or relationships with customers. 15 Table of Contents Declining market values of our vessels could adversely affect our liquidity and result in breaches of our financing agreements. Market values of vessels fluctuate depending upon general economic and market conditions affecting relevant markets and industries and competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation. In addition, as vessels become older, they generally decline in value. Declining vessel values could adversely affect our liquidity by limiting our ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of loan covenants and events of default under certain of our credit facilities that require us to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral in the event of a decline in vessel values, the lenders under these facilities could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. As of December 31, 2013, the total outstanding debt under credit facilities with this type of covenant tied to conventional tanker values was $146.7 million and to LNG carrier values was $400.1 million. We have five financing arrangements that require us to maintain vessel value to outstanding loan principal balance ratios ranging from 105% to 120%. At December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with these required ratios. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change may also adversely affect demand for our services. Although we do not expect that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short-term, in the long-term, climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas or increased regulation of greenhouse gases may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We have substantial debt levels and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations totaled $6.7 billion and we had the capacity to borrow an additional $0.6 billion under our credit facilities. These credit facilities may be used by us for general corporate purposes. Our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations could increase substantially. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to refinance our credit facilities may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to stockholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend on certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we rely on distributions and other intercompany cash flows from our subsidiaries to repay our obligations. Financing arrangements between some of our subsidiaries and their respective lenders contain restrictions on distributions from such subsidiaries. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt service requirements, we may be forced to take actions such as: • restructuring or refinancing our debt; • seeking additional debt or equity capital; • seeking bankruptcy protection; • reducing dividends/cash distributions; • reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures; or • selling assets. Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. In addition, our credit agreements and the indenture governing our debt securities may restrict our ability to implement some of these measures. 16 Table of Contents Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facilities, term loans and in any of our future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements restrict our ability to: • pay dividends; • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • grant liens on our assets; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment under our credit facilities, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. Certain of Teekay LNG’s lease arrangements contain provisions whereby it has provided a tax indemnification to third parties, which may result in increased lease payments or termination of favorable lease arrangements. Teekay LNG and a joint venture partner are the lessee under 30-year capital lease arrangements with a third party for three LNG carriers. Under the terms of these capital lease arrangements, the lessor claims tax depreciation on the capital expenditures it incurred to acquire these vessels. As is typical in these leasing arrangements, tax and change of law risks are assumed by the lessee. The rentals payable under the lease arrangements are predicated on the basis of certain tax and financial assumptions at the commencement of the leases. If an assumption proves to be incorrect or there is a change in the applicable tax legislation or the interpretation thereof by the United Kingdom taxing authority, the lessor is entitled to increase the rentals so as to maintain its agreed after-tax margin. Teekay LNG does not have the ability to pass these increased rentals onto the charter party. However, the terms of the lease arrangements enable Teekay LNG and the joint venture partner jointly to terminate the lease arrangement on a voluntary basis at any time. In the event of an early termination of the lease arrangements, the joint venture may be obliged to pay termination sums to the lessor sufficient to repay its investment in the vessels and to compensate it for the tax effect of the terminations, including recapture of tax depreciation, if any. Although the exact amount of any such payments upon termination would be negotiated between Teekay LNG and the lessor, we expect the amount would be significant. As described in “Item 18 – Financial Statements: Note 10 – Capital Lease Obligations and Restricted Cash,” the Teekay Nakilat Corporation (or Teekay Nakilat) and a joint venture partner (or Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture) is the lessee under 30-year capital lease arrangements with a third party for the three RasGas II LNG Carriers (or the RasGas II Leases). The UK taxing authority (or HMRC) has been urging the lessor as well as other lessors under capital lease arrangements that have tax benefits similar to the ones provided by the RasGas II Leases, to terminate such finance lease arrangements and has in other circumstances challenged the use of similar structures. As a result, the lessor has requested that the Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture enter into negotiations to terminate the RasGas II Leases. The Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture has declined this request as it does not believe that HRMC will be able to successfully challenge the availability of the tax benefits of these leases to the lessor. This assessment is partially based on a January 2012 court decision from the First Tribunal regarding a similar financial lease of an LNG carrier that ruled in favor of the taxpayer as well as a 2013 decision from the Upper Tribunal that upheld the 2012 verdict. HMRC has been granted leave to further appeal the 2013 decision to the Court of Appeal. If the HMRC is able to successfully challenge the RasGas II Leases, the Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture could be subject to significant costs associated with the termination of the lease or increased lease payments to compensate the lessor for the lost tax benefits. Teekay LNG estimates its 70% share of the potential exposure to be approximately $34 million, exclusive of potential financing and interest rate swap termination costs. The Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture has received notice from the lessor of the three vessels of a credit rating downgrade to the bank that was providing the letter of credit (or LC Bank) to Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture’s lease. As a result, in January 2014, the lessor notified Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture of an increase in the lease payments over the remaining term of the RasGas II Leases of approximately $12.3 million on a net present value basis effective April 2014. Teekay LNG’s 70% share of the present value of the lease payment increase is approximately $8.6 million. Teekay Nakilat Joint Venture is looking at alternatives to mitigate the impact of the downgrade to the LC Bank’s credit rating to avoid a prolonged increase to lease payments. In addition, the subsidiaries of another joint venture formed to service the Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia has lease arrangements with a third party for two LNG carriers. Teekay LNG purchased our interest in this joint venture in 2009. The terms of the lease arrangements provide similar tax and change of law risk assumption by this joint venture as with the three RasGas II LNG Carriers above. Our joint venture arrangements impose obligations upon us but limit our control of the joint ventures, which may affect our ability to achieve our joint venture objectives. For financial or strategic reasons, we conduct a portion of our business through joint ventures. Generally, we are obligated to provide proportionate financial support for the joint ventures although our control of the business entity may be substantially limited. Due to this limited control, we generally have less flexibility to pursue our own objectives through joint ventures than we would with our own subsidiaries. There is no assurance that our joint venture partners will continue their relationships with us in the future or that we will be able to achieve our financial or strategic objectives relating to the joint ventures and the markets in which they operate. In addition, our joint venture partners may have business objectives that are inconsistent with ours, experience financial and other difficulties that may affect the success of the joint venture, or be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint ventures, which may affect our financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 4. Information on the Company—Taxation of the Company” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “—Non-United States Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common stock. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC) for such purposes in any taxable year for which either (a) at least 75% of its gross income consists of “passive income” or (b) at least 50% of the average value of the entity’s assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties, other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. By contrast, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” There are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from our time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services, including the decision in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), which held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a foreign sales corporation provision of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Code). However, the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) stated in an Action on Decision (AOD 2010-01) that it disagrees with, and will not acquiesce to, the way that the rental versus services framework was applied to the facts in the Tidewater decision, and in its discussion stated that the time charters at issue in Tidewater would be treated as producing services income for PFIC purposes. The IRS’s statement with respect to Tidewater cannot be relied upon or otherwise cited as precedent by taxpayers. Consequently, in the absence of any binding legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing PFICs, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court would not follow the Tidewater decision in interpreting the PFIC provisions of the Code. Nevertheless, based on our current assets and operations, we intend to take the position that we are not now and have never been a PFIC. No assurance can be given, however, that the IRS or a court of law, will accept our position, or that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in our assets, income or operations. If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. holders of our common stock will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those U.S. holders make certain elections available under the Code, such holders would be liable to pay tax at ordinary income tax rates plus interest upon certain distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if such distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. holder’s holding period. Please read “Item 10. Additional Information–Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification.” We may be subject to taxes, which could affect our operating results. We or our subsidiaries are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are organized, own assets or have operations, which reduces our operating results. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries, further reducing our operating results. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in additional tax being imposed on us or on our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. For example, changes in the ownership of our stock may cause us to be unable to claim an exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code. If we were not exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on shipping income attributable to our subsidiaries’ transportation of cargoes to or from the U.S., the amount of which is not within our complete control. Also, jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are organized, own assets or have operations may change their tax laws, or we may enter into new business transactions relating to such jurisdictions, which could result in increased tax liability and reduce our operating results. Please read “Item 4. Information on the Company—Taxation of the Company.” 