Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates, which may adversely affect our earnings. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings may decrease, particularly with respect to our spot tanker sub-segment, a subset of our conventional tanker segment, which accounted for approximately 9% and 13% of our net revenues during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may cause significant increases or decreases in the revenue we earn from our vessels and may also cause significant increases or decreases in the value of our vessels. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. 9 Table of Contents Factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Changes in the oil and natural gas markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil, petroleum products, LNG and LPG depend upon world and regional oil, petroleum and natural gas markets. Any decrease in shipments of oil, petroleum products, LNG or LPG in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, petroleum products, LNG or LPG, and competition from alternative energy sources. A slowdown of the U.S. and world economies may result in reduced consumption of oil, petroleum products and natural gas and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which would reduce vessel earnings. Changes in the spot tanker market may result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. During 2011 and 2010, we derived approximately 9% and 13%, respectively, of our net revenues from the vessels in our spot tanker sub-segment (which includes vessels operating under charters with an initial term of less than one year). Our spot tanker sub-segment consists of conventional crude oil tankers and product carriers operating on the spot tanker market or subject to time charters, or contracts of affreightment priced on a spot-market basis or fixed-rate contracts with a term of less than one year. Part of our conventional Aframax and Suezmax tanker fleets and our large and medium product tanker fleets are among the vessels included in our spot tanker sub-segment. Our shuttle tankers may also trade in the spot tanker market when not otherwise committed to perform under time-charters or contracts of affreightment. Due to activity in the spot-charter market, declining spot rates in a given period generally will result in corresponding declines in operating results for that period. The spot-charter market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot-charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. Future spot rates may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot tanker market to operate profitably or to provide sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Reduction in oil produced from offshore oil fields could harm our shuttle tanker and FPSO businesses. As at December 31, 2011, we had 36 vessels operating in our shuttle tanker fleet and seven FPSO units operating in our FPSO fleet. A majority of our shuttle tankers and all of our FPSO units earn revenue that depends upon the volume of oil we transport or the volume of oil produced from offshore oil fields. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our control, including: • geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; • the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; and • operator decisions based on revenue compared to costs from continued operations. Factors that may affect an operator’s decision to initiate or continue production include: changes in oil prices; capital budget limitations; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; the quality of drilling prospects in the area; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil we transport may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills, operational difficulties, strikes, employee lockouts or other labor unrest. The rate of oil production at fields we service may decline from existing or future levels, and may be terminated, all of which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, if such a reduction or termination occurs, the spot tanker market rates, if any, in the conventional oil tanker trades at which we may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under contracts of affreightment, which would also harm our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents The redeployment risk of FPSO units is high given their lack of alternative uses and significant costs. FPSO units are specialized vessels that have very limited alternative uses and high fixed costs. In addition, FPSO units typically require substantial capital investments prior to being redeployed to a new field and production service agreement. Unless extended, certain of our FPSO production service agreements will expire during the next seven years. Our clients may also terminate certain of our FPSO production service agreements prior to their expiration under specified circumstances. Any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy the vessels at acceptable rates may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The duration of many of our shuttle tanker and FSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, we will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Some of our shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, we no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker and floating storage and off-take (or FSO) contracts under which our vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If we are unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of our business and operating results. Charter rates for conventional oil and product tankers may fluctuate substantially over time and may be lower when we are attempting to re-charter conventional oil or product tankers, which could adversely affect our operating results. Any changes in charter rates for LNG or LPG carriers, shuttle tankers or FSO or FPSO units could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Our ability to re-charter our conventional oil and product tankers following expiration of existing time-charter contracts and the rates payable upon any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the state of the conventional tanker market. Conventional oil and product tanker trades are highly competitive and have experienced significant fluctuations in charter rates based on, among other things, oil, refined petroleum product and vessel demand. For example, an oversupply of conventional oil tankers can significantly reduce their charter rates. There also exists some volatility in charter rates for LNG and LPG carriers, shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units, which could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. Vessel values for oil and product tankers, LNG and LPG carriers and FPSO and FSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline substantially from existing levels. If operation of a vessel is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered vessel at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. Vessel values, particularly of tankers, have declined over the past few years, and have contributed to charges against our earnings. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LPG, and LNG and LPG shipping, as well as offshore oil transportation, production, processing and storage services. A significant portion of our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG and LPG shipping sectors and on expansion in the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. Expansion of the LNG and LPG shipping sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LPG and LNG and LPG shipping and the supply of LNG and LPG. Demand for LNG and LPG and LNG and LPG shipping could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as increases in the costs of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally, increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, increases in the price of LNG and LPG relative to other energy sources, the availability of new energy sources, and negative global or regional economic or political conditions. Reduced demand for LNG or LPG and LNG or LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on future growth of our liquefied gas segment, and could harm that segment’s results. Growth of the LNG and LPG markets may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community and environmental group resistance to new LNG and LPG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. If the LNG or LPG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG or LPG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: • decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; • increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; and 11 Table of Contents • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, production, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The intense competition in our markets may lead to reduced profitability or expansion opportunities. Our vessels operate in highly competitive markets. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies and independent companies. We also compete with owners of other size vessels. Our market share is insufficient to enforce any degree of pricing discipline in the markets in which we operate and our competitive position may erode in the future. Any new markets that we enter could include participants that have greater financial strength and capital resources than we have. We may not be successful in entering new markets. One of our objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG and LPG carriers, shuttle tankers, FSO and FPSO units. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential LNG, LPG, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Some of these competitors have greater experience in these markets and greater financial resources than do we. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience will enter the LNG and LPG transportation, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time-charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any key customer or its inability to pay for our services could result in a significant loss of revenue in a given period. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Three customers, international oil companies, accounted for an aggregate of 36%, or $698.9 million, of our consolidated revenues during 2011 (2010 – three customers for 37% or $778.6 million, 2009 – three customers for 33% or $716.5 million). The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer, or the inability of a significant customer to pay for our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. Economic downturns and financial crises in the global markets could produce illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If global financial markets and economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the future, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or bank lending, which may make it more difficult and costly to fund future growth. Decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. For further information about regulations affecting our business and related requirements on us, please read “