Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates, which may adversely affect our earnings. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings may decrease, particularly with respect to our spot tanker segment, which accounted for approximately 43% and 34% of our net revenues during 2008 and 2007, respectively. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may cause significant increases or decreases in the revenue we earn from our vessels and may also cause significant increases or decreases in the value of our vessels. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The continuation of recent economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets have produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If this economic downturn continues, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or secured debt lenders, such as our revolving credit facilities. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents The recent economic downturn may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer’s inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. Changes in the oil and natural gas markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil, petroleum products and LNG depend upon world and regional oil and natural gas markets. Any decrease in shipments of oil, petroleum products or LNG in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, petroleum products and LNG, and competition from alternative energy sources. A slowdown of the U.S. and world economies may result in reduced consumption of oil, petroleum products and natural gas and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which would reduce vessel earnings. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and other current and future conflicts may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to raise capital or future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil, LNG and LPG production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil, LNG and LPG facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil, LNG and LPG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil, LNG or LPG to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate charter contracts, which could harm our cash flow and our business. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, changing laws and policies affecting trade, investment and changes in tax regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial results. As well, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping oil, LNG and LPG from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf or other regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States, Spain or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our business, cash flow and financial results. Our dependence on spot voyages may result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. During 2008 and 2007, we derived approximately 43% and 34%, respectively, of our net revenues from the vessels in our spot tanker segment. Our spot tanker segment consists of conventional crude oil tankers and product carriers operating on the spot tanker market or subject to time charters, or contracts of affreightment priced on a spot-market basis or short-term fixed-rate contracts. We consider contracts that have an original term of less than three years in duration to be short-term. Part of our conventional Aframax and Suezmax tanker fleets and our large and medium product tanker fleets are among the vessels included in our spot tanker segment. Our shuttle tankers may also trade in the spot tanker market when not otherwise committed to perform under time-charters or contracts of affreightment. Due to our dependence on the spot-charter market, declining charter rates in a given period generally will result in corresponding declines in operating results for that period. The spot-charter market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot-charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. In the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot tanker market to operate profitably or to provide sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Reduction in oil produced from offshore oil fields could harm our shuttle tanker and FPSO businesses. As at December 31, 2008, we had 37 vessels operating in our shuttle tanker fleet and five floating production, storage and offloading (or FPSO) units operating in our FPSO fleet. A majority of our shuttle tankers and all of our FPSOs earn revenue that depends upon the volume of oil we transport or the volume of oil produced from offshore oil fields. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our control, including: • geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; • the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; and • operator decisions based on revenue compared to costs from continued operations. 7 Table of Contents Factors that may affect an operator’s decision to initiate or continue production include: changes in oil prices; capital budget limitations; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; the quality of drilling prospects in the area; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil we transport may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills, operational difficulties, strikes, employee lockouts or other labor unrest. The rate of oil production at fields we service may decline from existing or future levels, and may be terminated, all of which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, if such a reduction or termination occurs, the spot tanker market rates, if any, in the conventional oil tanker trades at which we may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under contracts of affreightment, which would also harm our business and operating results. The redeployment risk of FPSO units is high given their lack of alternative uses and significant costs. FPSO units are specialized vessels that have very limited alternative uses and high fixed costs. In addition, FPSO units typically require substantial capital investments prior to being redeployed to a new field and production service agreement. Unless extended, certain of our FPSO production service agreements will expire during the next 10 years. Our clients may also terminate certain of our FPSO production service agreements prior to their expiration under specified circumstances. Any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy the vessels at acceptable rates may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The duration of many of our shuttle tanker and FSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, we will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Many of our shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, we no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker and floating storage and off-take (or FSO) contracts under which our vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If we are unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of our business and operating results. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. Vessel values for oil and product tankers, LNG and LPG carriers and FPSO and FSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline substantially from existing levels. If operation of a vessel is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered vessel at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LPG and LNG and LPG shipping as well as offshore oil transportation, production, processing and storage services. A significant portion of our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG and LPG shipping sectors and on expansion in the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. Expansion of the LNG and LPG shipping sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LPG and LNG and LPG shipping and the supply of LNG and LPG. Demand for LNG and LPG and LNG and LPG shipping could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as increases in the costs of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally, increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, increases in the price of LNG and LPG relative to other energy sources, the availability of new energy sources, and negative global or regional economic or political conditions. Reduced demand for LNG or LPG and LNG or LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on future growth of our liquefied gas segment, and could harm that segment’s results. Growth of the LNG and LPG markets may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community and environmental group resistance to new LNG and LPG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. If the LNG or LPG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG or LPG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: • decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; • increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; and • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. 8 Table of Contents Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, production, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The intense competition in our markets may lead to reduced profitability or expansion opportunities. Our vessels operate in highly competitive markets. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies and independent companies. We also compete with owners of other size vessels. Our market share is insufficient to enforce any degree of pricing discipline in the markets in which we operate and our competitive position may erode in the future. Any new markets that we enter could include participants that have greater financial strength and capital resources than we have. We may not be successful in entering new markets. One of our objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG and LPG carriers, shuttle tankers, FSO and FPSO units. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential LNG, LPG, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Some of these competitors have greater experience in these markets and greater financial resources than do we. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience will enter the LNG and LPG transportation, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any key customer could result in a significant loss of revenue in a given period. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. One customer accounted for 14%, or $443.5 million, of our consolidated revenues during 2008 (20% or $472.3 million — 2007 and 15% or $307.9 million — 2006). The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations totaled $5.8 billion and we had the capacity to borrow an additional $1.1 billion under our credit facilities. These facilities may be used by us for general corporate purposes. Our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations could increase substantially. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to stockholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facilities, term loans and in any of our future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements restrict our ability to: • pay dividends; • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • grant liens on our assets; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90), for instance, allows for potentially unlimited liability for owners, operators and bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States, without regard to fault of such owners, operators and bareboat charterers. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by many countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. In addition, in complying with OPA 90, regulations of the International Maritime Organization (or IMO), European Union directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, ship-owners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. OPA 90 does not preclude claimants from seeking damages for the discharge of oil and hazardous substances under other applicable law, including maritime tort law. Such claims could include attempts to characterize seaborne transportation of LNG or LPG as an ultra-hazardous activity, which attempts, if successful, would lead to our being strictly liable for damages resulting from that activity. Various jurisdictions and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (or EPA) have recently adopted regulations governing the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species considered to be invasive. The EPA’s new ballast water treatment and other ballast water obligations will increase the cost of operating our vessels in United States waters. In addition to international regulations affecting oil tankers generally, countries having jurisdiction over North Sea areas also impose regulatory requirements applicable to operations in those areas. Operators of North Sea oil fields impose further requirements. As a result, we must make significant expenditures for sophisticated equipment, reporting and redundancy systems on its shuttle tankers. Additional regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed that could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of doing business in the North Sea or other regions in which we operate or may operate in the future. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our strategy of growth through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. A principal component of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both in the geographic areas and markets where we have historically focused as well as into new geographic areas, market segments and services. We may not be successful in expanding our operations and any expansion may not be profitable. Our strategy of growth through acquisitions involves business risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, including: • interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of an acquired company’s businesses and our businesses; • additional demands on members of our senior management while integrating acquired businesses, which would decrease the time they have to manage our existing business, service existing customers and attract new customers; • difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and business culture of acquired companies; • difficulties of coordinating and managing geographically separate organizations; • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers and customers, and those of the companies acquired; • difficulties entering geographic markets or new market segments in which we have no or limited experience; and • loss of key officers and employees of acquired companies. Acquisitions may not be profitable to us at the time of their completion and may not generate revenues sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition, including risks that we may: fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost-savings, revenue and cash flow enhancements and earnings accretion; decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; incur additional indebtedness, which may result in significantly increased interest expense or financial leverage, or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions, which may result in significant shareholder dilution; incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business acquired; or incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 10 Table of Contents The strain that growth places upon our systems and management resources may harm our business. Our growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. As we expand our operations, we must effectively manage and monitor operations, control costs and maintain quality and control in geographically dispersed markets. In addition, our three publicly listed subsidiaries have increased our complexity and placed additional demands on our management. Our future growth and financial performance will also depend on our ability to recruit, train, manage and motivate our employees to support our expanded operations and continue to improve our customer support, financial controls and information systems. These efforts may not be successful and may not occur in a timely or efficient manner. Failure to effectively manage our growth and the system and procedural transitions required by expansion in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or as a result of our operations. The operation of oil and product tankers, LNG and LPG carriers, FSO and FPSO units is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risk) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not generally carry insurance on our vessels covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Any significant off-hire time of our vessels could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any claims relating to our operations covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disaster; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage or pollution; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. We operate our conventional tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling, which historically has increased oil price volatility and oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and stronger in our fiscal quarters ended March 31 and December 31. 11 Table of Contents Due to harsh winter weather conditions, oil field operators in the North Sea typically schedule oil platform and other infrastructure repairs and maintenance during the summer months. Because the North Sea is our primary existing offshore oil market, this seasonal repair and maintenance activity contributes to quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations, as oil production typically is lower in the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30 in this region compared with production in the fiscal quarters ended March 31 and December 31. Because a significant portion of our North Sea shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment, under which revenue is based on the volume of oil transported, the results of our shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea under these contracts generally reflect this seasonal production pattern. When we redeploy affected shuttle tankers as conventional oil tankers while platform maintenance and repairs are conducted, the overall financial results for our North Sea shuttle tanker operations may be negatively affected if the rates in the conventional oil tanker markets are lower than the contract of affreightment rates. In addition, we seek to coordinate some of the general drydocking schedule of our fleet with this seasonality, which may result in lower revenues and increased drydocking expenses during the summer months. We expend substantial sums during construction of newbuildings and the conversion of tankers to FPSOs or FSOs without earning revenue and without assurance that they will be completed. We are typically required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding, but we do not derive any revenue from the vessel until after its delivery. In addition, under some of our time charters if our delivery of a vessel to a customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, almost double the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional substantial liquidated charges. Substantially all of our newbuilding financing commitments have been pre-arranged. However, if we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any of our newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. As of December 31, 2008, we had 22 newbuildings on order with deliveries scheduled between January 2009 and January 2012. As of December 31, 2008, progress payments made towards these newbuildings, excluding payments made by our joint venture partners, totaled $490.9 million. In addition, conversion of tankers to FPSOs and FSOs expose us to a numbers of risks, including lack of shipyard capacity and the difficulty of completing the conversion in a timely and cost effective manner. During conversion of a vessel, we do not earn revenue from it. In addition, conversion projects may not be successful. We make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our financial leverage could increase or our stockholders could be diluted. We regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide the marine transportation requirements for various projects, and we have currently submitted bids to provide transportation solutions for LNG and LPG projects. We may submit additional bids from time to time. The award process relating to LNG and LPG transportation opportunities typically involves various stages and takes several months to complete. If we bid on and are awarded contracts relating to any LNG and LPG project, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to build the related LNG and LPG carriers. To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. Issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay quarterly dividends. Exposure to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations results in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Substantially all of our revenues are earned in U.S. Dollars, although we are paid in Euros, Australian Dollars, Norwegian Kroner and British Pounds under some of our charters. A portion of our operating costs are incurred in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. This partial mismatch in operating revenues and expenses leads to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the Norwegian Kroner, the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Singapore Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the British Pound and the Euro. We also make payments under two Euro-denominated term loans. If the amount of these and other Euro-denominated obligations exceeds our Euro-denominated revenues, we must convert other currencies, primarily the U.S. Dollar, into Euros. An increase in the strength of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to convert more U.S. Dollars to Euros to satisfy those obligations. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies also result in fluctuations of our reported revenues and earnings. Under U.S. accounting guidelines, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the period. This revaluation historically has caused us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains or losses each period. The primary source of these gains and losses is our Euro-denominated term loans. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of our seafarers are employed under collective bargaining agreements. We may become subject to additional labor agreements in the future. We may suffer to labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. Our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or bi-annually for seafarers and annually for onshore operational staff and may increase our cost of operation. In certain cases, these negotiations have caused labor disruptions in the past and any future labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. We expect crew costs to increase in 2009. If we are not able to increase our rates to customers to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. We may not be exempt from United States tax on our United States source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. If we are not exempt from tax under Section 883 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, the shipping income derived from the United States sources attributable to our subsidiaries’ transportation of cargoes to or from the United States will be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If our subsidiaries were subject to such tax, our net income and cash flow would be reduced by the amount of such tax. Currently, we claim an exemption under Section 883. We cannot give any assurance that future changes and shifts in ownership of our stock will not preclude us from being able to satisfy an exemption under Section 883. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the absence of legislation extending the term would cause our dividends to be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. individual stockholders (and certain other U.S. stockholders). In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates or providing for some other treatment, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2011 or later will be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Please read Item 10. “Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Distributions.” U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign entity taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC), for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or at least 50.0% of the average value of the entity’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” We do not believe that our existing operations would cause us to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, as we treat the gross income we derive from our time and voyage charters as services income, rather than rental income. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the IRS will accept this position or that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in our assets, income or operations. Moreover, a recent decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, No. 08-30268 (5th Cir. Apr. 13, 2009) held that income derived from certain time chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income. However, the issues in this case arose under the foreign sales corporation rules of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (or the Code) and did not concern the PFIC rules. In addition, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) that the time charter income should be treated as services income. As a result, it is uncertain whether the principles of the Tidewater decision would be applicable to our operations. However, if the principles of the Tidewater decision were applicable to all of our operations, we likely would be treated as a PFIC. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. stockholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make certain elections available under the Code, such stockholders would be taxable at ordinary income tax rates rather than the preferential 15.0% tax rate on our dividends, and would be liable to pay tax at ordinary income tax rates plus interest upon certain distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common units, as if such distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period. Please read Item 10. “Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification.” 13 Table of Contents 