Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the tanker industry causes volatility in our profitability. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. Increases or decreases in the supply of tankers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly with respect to our spot tanker segment, which accounted for approximately 42% and 51% of our net revenues during 2006 and 2005, respectively. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may cause significant increases or decreases in the revenue we earn from our vessels and may also cause significant increases or decreases in the value of our vessels. The supply of tanker capacity is influenced by the number and size of new vessels built, vessels scrapped, converted and lost, the number of vessels that are out of service and regulations that may effectively cause early obsolescence of tonnage. The demand for tanker capacity is influenced by, among other factors: global and regional economic conditions; increases and decreases in production of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products; increases and decreases in OPEC oil production quotas; the distance crude oil and petroleum products need to be transported by sea; and developments in international trade and changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Because many of the factors influencing the supply of and demand for tanker capacity are unpredictable, the nature, timing and degree of changes in tanker industry conditions are also unpredictable. We depend upon oil markets, changes in which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting crude oil and petroleum products depends upon world and regional oil markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil and petroleum products in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil and petroleum products, as well as competition from alternative energy sources. A slowdown of the United States and world economies may result in reduced consumption of crude oil and petroleum products and a decreased demand for our vessels and services. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks and war may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital or future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil and LNG production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil and LNG facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and LNG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil or LNG to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate charter contracts, which could harm our cash flow and our business. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, changing laws and policies affecting trade, investment and changes in tax regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial results. As well, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping oil and LNG 6 from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. In addition to acts of terrorism, vessels trading in this and other regions have also been subject, in limited circumstances, to piracy. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf or other regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by Spain, the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our business, cash flow and financial results. Our dependence on spot voyages may result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. During 2006 and 2005, we derived approximately 42% and 51%, respectively, of our net revenues from the vessels in our spot tanker segment. Our spot tanker segment consists of conventional crude oil tankers and product carriers operating on the spot market or subject to time charters or contracts of affreightment priced on a spot-market basis or short-term fixed-rate contracts. We consider contracts that have an original term of less than three years in duration to be short-term. Part of our conventional Aframax and Suezmax tanker fleets and our large and small product tanker fleets are among the vessels included in our spot tanker segment. Our shuttle tankers may also trade in the spot market when not otherwise committed to perform under time charters or contracts of affreightment. Due to our dependence on the spot charter market, declining charter rates in a given period generally will result in corresponding declines in operating results for that period. The spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates are subject to significant fluctuations based on tanker and oil supply and demand. Charter rates have varied significantly in the last few years. Future spot charters may not be available at rates that will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably or to provide sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Reduction in oil produced from offshore oil fields could harm our shuttle tanker and FPSO business. As at December 31, 2006, we had 42 vessels (including 12 chartered-in vessels) in our shuttle tanker fleet and four FPSO units. A majority of our shuttle tankers and all of our FPSOs earn revenue that depends upon the volume of oil we transport or the volume of oil produced from offshore oil fields. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our control, including: · geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; · the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; and · operator decisions based on revenue compared to costs from continued operations. Factors that may affect an operator’s decision to initiate or continue production include: changes in oil prices; capital budget limitations; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; the quality of drilling prospects in the area; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil we transport may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills, operational difficulties, strikes, employee lockouts or other labor unrest. The rate of oil production at fields we service may decline from existing or future levels, and may be terminated. If such a reduction or termination occurs, the spot market rates, if any, in the conventional oil tanker trades at which we may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under the contracts of affreightment, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. The duration of many of our shuttle tanker and FSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, we will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Many of our shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, we no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker and FSO contracts under which our vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If we are unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of our business and operating results. The redeployment risk of FPSO units is high given their lack of alternative uses and significant costs. FPSO units are specialized vessels that have very limited alternative uses and high fixed costs. In addition, FPSO units typically require substantial capital investments prior to being redeployed to a new field and production service agreement. Unless extended, each of our FPSO production service agreements will expire during the next 10 years. Our clients may also terminate these contracts prior to their expiration under specified circumstances. Any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy the vessels at acceptable rates may have an adverse affect on our business and operating results. Over time, vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we may incur a loss. Vessel values for oil tankers, LNG carriers and FPSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · prevailing economic conditions in oil, natural gas and energy markets; · a substantial or extended decline in demand for oil, natural gas or, LNG; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity, and 7 · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulation or standards, or otherwise. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance it, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LNG shipping as well as offshore oil transportation, production, processing and storage services. A significant portion of our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG shipping sector and on the expansion in the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. Expansion of the LNG shipping sector depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LNG shipping and the supply of LNG. Demand for LNG and LNG shipping could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as increases in the costs of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally, increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, increases in the price of LNG relative to other energy sources, the availability of new energy sources, and negative global or regional economic or political conditions. Reduced demand for LNG and LNG shipping would have a material adverse effect on future growth of our liquefied gas segment, and could harm that segment’s results. Growth of the LNG market may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community and environmental group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: · decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; · increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; · decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; · availability of new, alternative energy sources; and · negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, production, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The intense competition in our markets may lead to reduced profitability or expansion opportunities. Our crude oil and product tankers and LNG carriers operate in highly competitive markets. Competition arises primarily from other Aframax, Suezmax, shuttle tanker and LNG carrier owners, including major oil companies and independent companies. We also compete with owners of other size tankers. Our market share is insufficient to enforce any degree of pricing discipline in the markets in which we operate and our competitive position may erode in the future. Any new markets that we enter could include participants that have greater financial strength and capital resources than we have. We may not be successful in entering new markets. One of our objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG carriers, shuttle tankers, FSO and FPSO units. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential LNG, shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Many of these competitors have greater experience in these markets and significantly greater financial resources than do we. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience will enter the LNG transportation, FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any key customer could result in a significant loss of revenue in a given period. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. One customer accounted for 15%, or $307.9 million, of our consolidated revenues during 2006 (20% or $392.2 million - 2005 and 17% or $373.7 million - 2004). The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations totaled $3.7 billion and we had the capacity to borrow an additional $1.6 billion under our credit facilities. These facilities may be used by us for general corporate purposes. Our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations could increase substantially. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: 8 · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to stockholders; · our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. The oil tanker and LNG carrier industries are subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international conventions. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or further increase our costs. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90), for instance, increased expenses for us and others in our industry. OPA 90 provides for potentially unlimited joint, several and strict liability for owners, operators and demise or bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. OPA 90 applies to discharges of any oil from a vessel, including discharges of oil tanker cargoes and discharges of fuel and lubricants from an oil tanker or LNG carrier. To comply with OPA 90, vessel owners generally incur increased costs in meeting additional maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining required insurance coverage. OPA 90 requires vessel owners and operators of vessels operating in U.S. waters to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of insurance or of qualification as a self-insurer or other acceptable evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet certain potential liabilities under OPA 90 and the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (or CERCLA), which imposes similar liabilities upon owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels from which a discharge of “hazardous substances” (other than oil) occurs. While LNG should not be considered a hazardous substance under CERCLA, additives to fuel oil or lubricants used on LNG carriers might fall within its scope. Under OPA 90 and CERCLA, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly, severally and strictly liable for costs of cleanup and damages resulting from a discharge or threatened discharge within U.S. waters. This means we may be subject to liability even if we are not negligent or at fault. Most states in the United States bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited strict liability without regard to fault for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. An oil spill or other event could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages. The potential for these releases could increase to the extent we increase our operations in U.S. waters. OPA 90 and CERCLA do not preclude claimants from seeking damages for the discharge of oil and hazardous substances under other applicable law, including maritime tort law. Such claims could include attempts to characterize seaborne transportation of LNG as an ultra-hazardous activity, which attempts, if successful, would lead to our being strictly liable for damages resulting from that activity. Following the example of OPA 90, the International Maritime Organization (or IMO), the United Nations’ agency for maritime safety, has adopted regulations for tanker design and inspection that are designed to reduce oil pollution in international waters. In December 2003 the IMO announced regulations accelerating the phase out of single-hull tankers. The regulations impose a more rigorous inspection regime for older tankers and ban the carriage of heavy oils on single-hull tankers. We have sold all of our vessels affected by these regulations. Please read Item 4 - Information on the Company: Regulations. In addition to international regulations affecting oil tankers generally, countries having jurisdiction over North Sea areas also impose regulatory requirements applicable to operations in those areas. Operators of North Sea oil fields impose further requirements. As a result, we must make significant expenditures for sophisticated equipment, reporting and redundancy systems on its shuttle tankers. Additional regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed that could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of doing business in the North Sea or other regions in which we operate or may operate in the future. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions. A principal component of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both in the geographic areas and markets where we have historically focused as well as into new geographic areas, market segments and services. We may not be successful in expanding our operations and any expansion may not be profitable. Our strategy of growth through acquisitions involves business risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, including: · interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of an acquired company’s businesses and our businesses; 9 · additional demands on members of our senior management while integrating acquired businesses, which would decrease the time they have to manage our business, service existing customers and attract new customers; · difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and business culture of acquired companies; · difficulties of coordinating and managing geographically separate organizations; · adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers and customers, and those of the companies acquired; · difficulties entering geographic markets or new market segments in which we have no or limited experience; and · loss of key officers and employees of acquired companies. Our failure to effectively integrate businesses we may acquire in the future may harm our business and results of operations. We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our strategy of growth through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. Acquisitions may not be profitable to us at the time of their completion and may not generate revenues sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition, including risks that we may: fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost-savings, revenue and cash flow enhancements and earnings accretion; decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; incur additional indebtedness, which may result in significantly increased interest expense or financial leverage, or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions, which may result in significant shareholder dilution; incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business acquired; or incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. The strain that growth places upon our systems and management resources may harm our business. Our growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. As we expand our operations, we must effectively manage and monitor operations, control costs and maintain quality and control in geographically dispersed markets. In addition, our two limited partnership’s have increased our complexity and thus has placed additional demands on our management. Our future growth and financial performance will also depend on our ability to recruit, train, manage and motivate our employees to support our expanded operations and continue to improve our customer support, financial controls and information systems. These efforts may not be successful and may not occur in a timely or efficient manner. Failure to effectively manage our growth and the system and procedural transitions required by expansion in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or as a result of our operations. The operation of oil tankers, LNG carriers, FSO and FPSO units is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risk) protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not generally carry insurance on our vessels covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. 10 Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · piracy; · human error; and · war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: · death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage or pollution; · delays in the delivery of cargo; · loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; · governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; · higher insurance rates; and · damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. We operate our conventional tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling. The oil price volatility resulting from these factors has historically led to increased oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the second and third quarters, and, conversely, revenues have been stronger during the first and fourth quarters. Due to harsh winter weather conditions, oil field operators in the North Sea typically schedule oil platform and other infrastructure repairs and maintenance during the summer months. Because the North Sea is our primary existing offshore oil market, this seasonal repair and maintenance activity contributes to quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations, as oil production typically is lower in the second and third quarters in this region compared with production in the first and fourth quarters. Because a significant portion of our North Sea shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment, under which revenue is based on the volume of oil transported, the results of these shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea under these contracts generally reflect this seasonal production pattern. When we redeploy affected shuttle tankers as conventional oil tankers while platform maintenance and repairs are conducted, the overall financial results for our North Sea shuttle tanker operations may be negatively affected as the rates in the conventional oil tanker markets at times may be lower than contract of affreightment rates. In addition, we seek to coordinate some of the general drydocking schedule of our fleet with this seasonality, which may result in lower revenues and increased drydocking expenses during the summer months. We expend substantial sums during construction of newbuildings and the conversion of tankers to FPSOs or FSOs without earning revenue and without assurance that they will be completed. We are typically required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding, but we do not derive any revenue from the vessel until after its delivery. In addition, under some of our time charters if our delivery of a vessel to a customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, almost double the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional substantial liquidated charges. If we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any of our newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. As of December 31, 2006, we had 26 newbuildings on order with deliveries scheduled between January 2007 and August 2009. As of December 31, 2006, progress payments made towards these newbuildings, excluding payments made by our joint venture partners, totaled $701.9 million. We ordered two shuttle tanker newbuildings in January 2007 and expect to order additional newbuildings in the future. In addition, conversion projects expose us to a numbers of risks, including lack of shipyard capacity and the difficulty of completing the conversion in a timely and cost effective manner. There can be no assurance that such conversion projects will be successful. Exposure to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Substantially all of our revenues are earned in U.S. Dollars, although we are paid in Euros, Australian Dollars, Norwegian Kroner and British Pounds under some of our charters. A portion of our operating costs are incurred in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. This partial mismatch in operating revenues and expenses could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the Norwegian Kroner, the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Singapore Dollar, the Japanese 11 Yen, the British Pound and the Euro. We also make payments under two Euro-denominated term loans. If the amount of these and other Euro-denominated obligations exceeds our Euro-denominated revenues, we must convert other currencies, primarily the U.S. Dollar, into Euros. An increase in the strength of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to convert more U.S. Dollars to Euros to satisfy those obligations. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies also result in fluctuations of our reported revenues and earnings. Under U.S. accounting guidelines, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the period. This revaluation historically has caused us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains or losses each period. The primary source of these gains and losses is our Euro-denominated term loans. We may not be exempt from United States tax on our United States source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. If we are not exempt from tax under Section 883 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, the shipping income derived from the United States sources attributable to our subsidiaries' transportation of cargoes to or from the United States will be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If our subsidiaries were subject to such tax, our net income and cash flow would be reduced by the amount of such tax. Currently, we claim an exemption under Section 883. We cannot give any assurance that future changes and shifts in ownership of our stock will not preclude us from being able to satisfy the existing exemption. In 2006 and 2005, approximately 17.4% and 13.1%, respectively, of our gross shipping revenues were derived from U.S. sources attributable to the transportation of cargoes to or from the United States. The average U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. source income, in the absence of the exemption under Section 883, would have been 4%, or approximately $7.0 million and $10.3 million, respectively, for 2006 and 2005. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of our seafarers are employed under collective bargaining agreements. We may be subject to additional labor agreements in the future. We may be subject to labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. The collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or bi-annually for seafarers and annually for onshore operational staff. In certain cases, these negotiations have caused labor disruptions in the past and any future labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 