Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. The risks set forth below are in addition to risks that apply to most businesses. All of the Net Profits Interests have been sold as of August 2013 and the Trustee is in the process of winding down and liquidating the Trust after the affirmative vote of the requisite number of Unitholders. The Trust no longer receives any proceeds from the Net Profits Interests for the Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and the Chalkley Field as of the effective date of the purchase agreement for those fields (May 1, 2013). All of the Risk Factors set forth below are qualified in this regard. See Trust Termination below in this item for further information. The other Risk Factors set forth below should be considered in light of the wind up and liquidation of the Trust. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Trust’s financial condition and results of operations and the future and current value of the Net Profits Interests could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks not presently known to the Trust or which the Trust considers immaterial based on information currently available to it may also materially adversely affect the Trust. Because of these factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. Trust Termination and Liquidation The Trust received the affirmative vote of the Unitholders of more than 66 2/3% of the outstanding Units to terminate the Trust at the meeting of Unitholders held on January 29, 2008. Upon termination of the Trust, among other things, the Trustee is required to sell the Net Profits Interests. Specifically, pursuant to Section 9.03(e) of the Trust Agreement if the property of the Trust Estate (as defined in the Trust Agreement) has not been sold prior to the end of one calendar year following the termination date, the Trustee, thereafter, must cause such assets to be sold at public auction. On August 4, 2011 the Trust entered into a material definitive agreement for advisory and marketing services with an effective date of August 1, 2011 with respect to the sale of the Net Profits Interests pursuant to an agreement with PLS, Inc., a Texas corporation. The Trust notified RBP II on November 3, 2011 that it was the successful bidder in the public auction of the sale of the Net Profits Interests attributable to the Robinson’s Bend Field. On December 13, 2011, the Trust entered into a purchase and sale agreement by and between RBP II pursuant to which the Trust agreed to sell, and RBP II agreed to purchase, all of the Trust’s Net Profits Interests attributable to the Underlying Properties in the Robinson’s Bend Field for a purchase price of $1,000,000. The sale signed and closed simultaneously on December 13, 2011. On August 30, 2013, the Trust simultaneously signed and closed a purchase and sale agreement by and among the Trust, TRC, Torch E&P Company, N.M.L. Inc., of Texas (formerly Torch Energy Services, Inc.), and Torch, pursuant to which the Trust and the Torch Energy Louisiana Royalty Trust sold certain net profits interests attributable to the underlying working interests in certain fields that produce from the Cotton Valley 7 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and Chalkley Field for a purchase price of $3,258,330. The buying parties were the successful bidder in the public auction of the net profit interests attributable to underlying working interests in the Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and the Chalkley Field. All of the Net Profits Interests have been sold as of August 2013 and the Trustee is in the process of winding down and liquidating the Trust after the affirmative vote of the requisite number of Unitholders. The Trust no longer receives any proceeds from the Net Profits Interests for the Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and the Chalkley Field as of the effective date of the purchase agreement for those fields (May 1, 2013). The Trustee anticipates it will continue to consult with the Trust’s and Trustee’s financial and legal advisors in the wind down of the Trust. The Trust’s continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC during the wind down and liquidation of the Trust may pose significant risks to the Trust’s business, which could materially and adversely affect the Trust financial condition. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for natural gas produced from the Trust’s Net Profits Interests. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unitholder over the life of these depleting assets or distributions following a sale of the Net Profits Interests will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unitholder. All of the Net Profits Interests have been sold as of August 2013 and the Trustee is in the process of winding down and liquidating the Trust after the affirmative vote of the requisite number of Unitholders. The Trust no longer receives any proceeds from the Net Profits Interests for the Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and the Chalkley Field as of the effective date of the purchase agreement for those fields (May 1, 2013). The Trust may have to lower the cash distributions or may not be able to pay distributions at all during the wind down and liquidation of the Trust. All of the Net Profits Interests have been sold as of August 2013 and the Trustee is in the process of winding down and liquidating the Trust after the affirmative vote of the requisite number of Unitholders. The Trust no longer receives any proceeds from the Net Profits Interests for the Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk Fields and the Chalkley Field as of the effective date of the purchase agreement for those fields (May 1, 2013). Trust expenses may have an adverse impact on the distributions to Unitholders during the wind down and liquidation of the Trust. Trust expenses, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and legal fees during the wind down and liquidation of the Trust may have an adverse effect on the ability of the Trust to pay quarterly distributions to the Unitholders. The Trustee has set up a cash reserve account pursuant to the Trust Agreement in order to provide the funds necessary for an orderly wind down and liquidation of the Trust. The estimated reserve quantities in this report are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of the Trust’s reserves. Estimates of economically recoverable natural gas and oil reserves and of future net cash flows are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which are to some degree speculative and may vary considerably from actual results. Prices for oil and natural gas are volatile and are subject to large 8 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Trust and/or Torch. Therefore, actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operation expenditures may not occur as estimated. Future results of the Trust will depend upon the ability of the owners of the Underlying Properties to develop, produce and sell their oil and natural gas reserves and the corresponding proceeds from such sales which may vary widely. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The present value, discounted at 10%, of future net cash flows from proved reserves attributable to the Net Profits Interests does not represent the fair market value of the proved reserves, or the price at which the Net Profits Interests could be sold. A determination of fair market value would involve consideration of many factors in addition to the present value, discounted at 10%. An impairment loss is recognized when the net carrying value of the Net Profits Interests exceeds its fair market value. During the year ended December 31, 2012, no impairment loss was recognized. An impairment loss of $6.8 million was recognized in 2011 and no impairment loss was recognized during 2010. If it is determined that the Trust is subject to the Texas margin tax, the Trustee may have to withhold a disproportionate amount from future distributions to pay the tax liability. The Trustee does not intend to pay any amounts for the Texas margin tax for tax periods subsequent to January 1, 2008, based on the assumption that the Trust is exempt from tax as a passive entity; however, there is currently no clear statutory authority that the Trust meets requirements for the margin tax exemption as a passive entity. The effective date of the legislation was January 1, 2008, but the tax was generally imposed on revenues generated in 2007 and thereafter (earlier for certain fiscal year taxpayers). If it is subsequently determined that the Trust is not exempt from the margin tax, the Trust would be required to deduct and withhold from future distributions the amounts necessary to pay the margin tax for each of the five years ending December 31, 2012, including the tax liability accruing on income distributed after December 2006 attributable to Trust revenues during the six years ended December 31, 2012 from which no tax was withheld. For more information about the Texas margin tax, see Note 3 to the Trust’s accompanying financial statements. Federal Regulation The Underlying Properties are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC with respect to various aspects of natural gas operations including the marketing and production of natural gas. The Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act (collectively, the “Acts”) mandate Federal regulation of interstate transportation of natural gas. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 terminated wellhead price controls on all domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993. Numerous questions have been raised concerning the interpretation and implementation of several significant provisions of the Acts and of the regulations and policies promulgated by FERC there under. A number of lawsuits and administrative proceedings have been instituted which challenge the validity of regulations implementing the Acts. In addition, FERC currently has under consideration various policies and proposals that may affect the marketing of natural gas under new and existing contracts. Accordingly, the Trust and Trustee is unable to predict the impact of any such government regulation. In the past, Congress has been very active in the area of natural gas regulation. Legislation enacted in repeals incremental pricing requirements and natural gas use restraints previously applicable. At the present time, it is impossible to predict what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the Underlying Properties and the Trust. 9 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust State Regulation Many state jurisdictions have at times imposed limitations on the production of natural gas by restricting the rate of flow for natural gas wells below their actual capacity to produce and by imposing acreage limitations for the drilling of a well. States may also impose additional regulations of these matters. Most states regulate the production of natural gas, including requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, provisions for the unitization or pooling of natural gas properties, the spacing, operation, plugging and abandonment of wells and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. The rate of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowable from natural gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis or both. The market price for the Trust’s Units may not reflect the value of the Net Profits Interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Trust Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distributions on the Trust Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties. The market price of the Trust Units is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if the Net Profits Interests were sold to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that, since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Trust Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unitholder over the life of these depleting assets or distributions following the sales of the Net Profits Interests will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unitholder. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because net profits income is not accrued in the month of production, expenses are not recognized when incurred and cash reserves may be established for certain contingencies that would not be recorded in GAAP financial statements. The Trust is dependent on certain service providers to provide various services, including wind-down services, to the Trust. The Trust and Trustee rely on third party service providers to perform administrative services, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance services and other services for the Trust. Torch provided accounting, bookkeeping, informational and other services to the Trust related to the Net Profits Interests pursuant to the Administrative Services Agreement effective October 1, 1993 and an oral arrangement after termination of the Administrative Services Agreement on January 29, 2008 through April 1, 2008. On November 7, 2008, the Trust and Torch entered an agreement whereby Torch provided certain accounting services in connection with the preparation of the Trust’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Such service agreement expired December 23, 2008. To facilitate the winding down of the Trust, Torch currently provides certain accounting and other services for the Trust pursuant to an agreement with the Trust entered into on March 26, 2009. The initial term of the agreement expired on March 31, 2010 and was thereafter extended from year to year, up to the period ending August 30, 2013. Torch currently provides the Trust via letter agreement the administrative services 10 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust historically provided by Torch to the Trust through December 31, 2013 consistent with past practice and (ii) from December 31, 2013 to April 30, 2014 shall provide services to the Trust in support of any tax correspondence (tax booklet) and tax filings that might be necessary for the year ended December 31, 2013 consistent with past practice and other related services necessary to complete the wind down of the Trust that are also consistent with past practice. Subsequently, the inability of the Trust to hire qualified services providers to assist in the wind down and liquidation of the Trust may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Trust. Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unitholders or an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust as set forth in the Trust’s Trust Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Trust does not currently have any unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. 