Risk Factors We cannot predict a return to profitability. Although we have made progress in reducing elements of our expense structure, a confluence of factors may reduce the impact of these improvements, as well as our ability to enhance our revenues or to predict the timing of our return to long-term profitability. These factors include, among others: • Adverse changes to our product mix, both fundamentally (resulting from new product transitions, the declining profitability of certain of our legacy products and the termination of certain formerly higher margin products, among other things) and due to quarterly demand fluctuations within our product portfolio, which has a wide gross margin range, resulting in inventory-related charges and other expenses related to under-absorption of manufacturing overhead; • The declining, but variable impact of transient financial benefits (including warranty reversals, cancellation revenues and the consumption of previously-written off inventory) accumulated during the economic downturn and associated restructuring activities; • Adverse charges associated with underutilization of our manufacturing capacities; • Intense pricing pressures across our product lines (due to competitive forces, increasingly from Asia, and a highly concentrated customer base), which continue to offset many of the cost improvements we are realizing quarter over quarter; • Increasing commoditization of previously customized, differentiated products, principally in our communications markets, and the concomitant negative effect on pricing and profit margins; • Continuing execution challenges which limit revenue opportunities, harm profitability, market share and customer relations; • Restructuring charges, employee severance expenses and other costs associated with asset divestitures, facility consolidations, product transfers, product terminations and other actions associated with our continuing restructuring activities; • Revenue declines associated with terminated or divested product lines; • Continuing redundant costs related to transitioning manufacturing to low cost locations; and • Continuing high levels of selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. 17 Table of Contents Taken together, these factors limit our ability to predict and achieve profitability. While some of these factors may diminish over time as we improve our cost structure and focus on enhancing our product mix, several, such as continuous pricing pressure, increasing Asia-based competition, increasing commoditization of previously-differentiated products and a highly concentrated customer base are likely to remain endemic to our industries. If we fail to achieve our stockholders’ profitability expectations, our stock price, as well as our business and financial condition, will suffer. If optical information networks do not continue to expand as expected, our communications business will suffer. Our future success as a manufacturer of optical components, modules and subsystems ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. As part of that growth, we are relying on increasing demand for high-content voice, video, text and other data delivered over high-speed connections (i.e., high bandwidth communications). As network usage and bandwidth demand increase, so do the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without network and bandwidth growth, the need for our advanced communications products, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, is jeopardized. Currently, while increasing demand for network services and for broadband access, in particular, is apparent, growth is limited by several factors, including, among others, an uncertain regulatory environment, reluctance from content providers to supply video and audio content over the communications infrastructure, and uncertainty regarding long term sustainable business models as multiple industries (cable, traditional telecommunications, wireless, satellite, etc.) offer non-complimentary and competing content delivery solutions. Ultimately, should long-term expectations for network growth and bandwidth demand not be realized or support a sustainable business model, our business would be significantly harmed. Without stability and growth in our non-communications businesses our margins and profitability may suffer. Our Commercial and Consumer Products Group represents a material, although varying, portion of our total net revenue. Gross margins associated with products in this segment often exceed those from products in our Communications Products Group. Revenue declines associated with Commercial and Consumer Products Group have had, and may in the future continue to have, a disproportionate impact on total Company profitability measures in any quarter. Accordingly, our strategy emphasizes the growth opportunities in both reported segments, as we seek to expand our markets and customer base, improve the profitability of our product portfolio and improve time to revenue. Therefore, we are engaged in or exploring new investment and product opportunities in our Commercial and Consumer Products Group, particularly in our coating technologies and laser businesses, as well as in our pigments business. Failures in these markets or in our execution of programs related to the same will significantly harm our business. Our optics and display business has suffered significant recent setbacks and is subject to major transition and risk. In recent periods, our optics and display revenues have declined substantially from historic levels, due to, among other things, product line terminations, market seasonality, increased competition, pricing pressures, and uncertain demand levels. In response, we have elected to phase out or divest certain products, outsource the manufacture of one product and consolidate the manufacturing resources related to the remainder of the business. We may in fact incur additional costs or suffer additional adverse financial and operational impacts related to declines in our optics and display business. Also, while we are currently investing in a new platform for optics and display components, we are in the early stages of this program and cannot yet predict the revenue or profitability levels, if any, that this investment will achieve. 18 Table of Contents Actions to improve our cost structure are costly and risky and the timing and extent of expected benefits is uncertain. In response to our profitability concerns we are working vigorously to reduce our cost structure. We have taken, and expect to continue to take, significant actions (including site closures, product transfers, asset divestitures and product terminations) in furtherance of this goal. In this regard, we recently announced several major cost reduction initiatives including the transfer of manufacturing of certain of our products to contract manufacturing partners and our Shenzhen, China, facility, site consolidations and divestitures, product line and operations divestitures, end of life programs and significant headcount reductions. We expect to continue to take additional, similar actions for the foreseeable future opportunistically. We cannot be certain that these programs will be successful or completed as and when anticipated. These programs are costly, as we have incurred, and will continue to incur expenses to complete the same. In addition, these programs are risky, as they are time-consuming and disruptive to our operations, employees, customers (most significantly, our end of life programs) and suppliers, with no guarantee that the expected results (particularly cost savings and profitability expectations) will be achieved as and when projected (among other things, cost savings achieved through these programs may not be timely or sufficient enough to offset continuing pricing declines), or that the costs to complete these program will not increase above expected levels. Apart from ensuring the timely, cost-effective, execution of the actions planned, it is imperative that we conduct these programs with minimal adverse customer impact. If our contract manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our business will suffer. We are increasing our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to internal manufacturing. Among other things, we recently transferred, or have agreed to transfer, several of our facilities, assets and manufacturing operations to our contract manufacturer, Fabrinet, and have also agreed to transfer the manufacture of certain other products to an additional contract manufacturer. Accordingly, our reliance on these and other contract manufacturers as primary manufacturing resources is growing significantly. Consequently, we are increasingly exposed to the general risks associated with the businesses, operations and financial condition of our contract manufacturers, including, among other things, the risks of bankruptcy, insolvency, management changes, adverse change of control, natural disasters and local political or economic volatility or instability. Nevertheless, if our contract manufacturers do not fulfill their obligations to us on a timely basis, for any reason, or if we do not properly manage these relationships and the transition of assets, operations and product manufacturing to these contract manufacturers, our business and customer relationships will suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. In this regard, we have experienced, and continue to periodically experience, difficulties (such as delays, interruptions and quality problems) associated with products we have transferred to contract manufacturers. These may continue, resulting in, among other things, lost revenue opportunities, customer dissatisfaction and additional costs. We have continuing concerns regarding the manufacture, quality and distribution of our products. These concerns are heightened as new product offerings increase. Our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality products on time to our customers at acceptable cost. As a technology company, we constantly encounter quality, volume and cost concerns. Currently, a combination of factors is exacerbating our concerns: • Our continuing cost reduction programs, which include site consolidations, asset divestitures, product transfers (internally and to contract manufacturers) and employee reductions, require the re-establishment and re-qualification of complex manufacturing lines, as well as modifications to systems, planning and operational infrastructure. During this process, we have experienced, and continue to experience: additional costs, delays in re-establishing volume production levels; supply chain interruptions; planning difficulties; inventory issues; factory absorption concerns; and systems integration problems. 19 Table of Contents • Periodic, variable increases in demand for certain of our products, in the midst of our cost reduction programs, have from time to time strained our execution abilities as well as those of our suppliers, as we are experiencing periodic and varying capacity, workforce and materials constraints, enhanced by the impact of our ongoing product and operational transfers. • Recently, we have commenced a series of new product programs and introductions, particularly in our circuit pack, communications modules and display components businesses, which due to the untested and untried nature of the relevant products and their manufacture and their increased complexity, exposes us to yield and product quality risk, internally and with our materials suppliers. These factors have caused considerable strain on our execution capabilities and customer relations. Currently, we are (a) having periodic difficulty responding to customer delivery expectations for some of our products, (b) experiencing yield and quality problems, particularly with some of our new products and higher volume products, and (c) expending additional funds and other resources to respond to these execution challenges. We are currently losing revenue opportunities due to these concerns. We are also, in the short-term, diverting resources from new product research and development and other functions to assist with resolving these matters. If we do not improve our performance in all of these areas, our operating results will be harmed, the commercial viability of new products may be challenged and our customers may choose to reduce their purchases of our products and purchase additional products from our competitors. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Customers will not purchase certain of our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing lines for the products. This concern is particularly relevant to us as we continue to take advantage of opportunities to further reduce costs through targeted, customer-driven, restructuring events, which will involve the relocation of certain of our manufacturing internally and to external manufacturers. Each new (including relocated) manufacturing line must undergo rigorous qualification testing with our customers. The qualification process can be lengthy and is expensive, with no guarantee that any particular product qualification process will lead to profitable product sales. The qualification process determines whether the manufacturing line achieves the customers’ quality, performance and reliability standards. Our expectations as to the time periods required to qualify a product line and ship products in volumes to customers may be erroneous. Delays in qualification can cause a long-term supply program to be cancelled. These delays will also impair the expected timing, and may impair the expected amount, of sales of the affected products. Nevertheless, we may, in fact, experience delays in obtaining qualification of our manufacturing lines and, as a consequence, our operating results and customer relationships would be harmed. We could incur significant costs to correct defective products. Our products are rigorously tested for quality both by our customers and us. Nevertheless, our products do, and may continue to, fail to meet customer expectations from time-to-time. Also, not all defects are immediately detectible. Customers’ testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products are fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions), our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. In either case, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and remain exposed to such failures, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In some cases, product redesigns or additional capital equipment may be required to correct a defect. We have in the past increased our warranty reserves and have incurred significant expenses relating to certain communications products. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as severe customer relations problems, litigation and damage to our reputation. 20 Table of Contents If we cannot develop new product offerings or if our new product offerings fail in the market, our business will suffer. We are a technology-dependent company. Our success or failure depends, in large part, upon our ability to continuously and successfully introduce and market new products and technologies meeting or exceeding our customers’ expectations. Accordingly, we intend to continue to develop new product lines and improve the business for existing ones. However, we have considerably reduced our research and development spending from historic levels and some of our competitors now spend considerably higher percentages of their revenues on research and development than do we. If we fail to develop and sustain a robust, commercially viable product pipeline our business will suffer. In recent periods, we have increased our focus on new products, particularly in our circuit pack, communications modules and optics and display businesses. Our current growth strategy emphasizes all of our businesses lines. Nevertheless, several of the key relevant products are untried and untested and have not yet demonstrated long-term commercial viability. Occasionally problems occur causing us to cancel or adjust new product programs. In this regard, we recently adjusted our light engine program to move from the mass production of integrated light engines for the broad consumer market to a focus on creating “best in class” components, integration techniques and systems integration for early market innovators. Current challenges across our new product efforts include establishing sustainable pricing and cost models, predictable and acceptable quality and yields, and adequate and reliable supply chains, as well as demonstrating our (and our suppliers’) ability to scale and provide adequate facilities, personnel and other resources. Nonetheless, if we fail to successfully develop and commercialize some or all of these new products, our business could suffer. Signs of market stability are not necessarily indicative of long-term growth. Among other things, while our direct telecommunications customer base has remained largely intact, their customer base, the service providers, has been significantly reduced due to industry consolidations and the reduction of the competitive local exchange carriers. Notwithstanding signs of market stability, visibility into our markets, and particularly the telecommunications market remains limited, average selling prices continue to decline and revenue and profitability targets and projections are subject to uncertainty and variability. While we are generally encouraged by long-term growth prospects, our visibility remains limited and we remain cautious and cannot predict the timing or magnitude of growth for our industries or our business, at this time. Stability concerns affecting many of our key suppliers could impair the quality, cost or availability of many of our important products, harming our revenue, profitability and customer relations. We have numerous materials suppliers for our products and, frequently, many of our important products rely on single-source suppliers for critical materials. These products include several of our advanced components, modules and subsystem products across our businesses. Many of our important suppliers are small companies facing financial stability, quality, yield, scale or delivery concerns. Some of these companies may be acquired, undergo material reorganizations or become insolvent. Others are larger companies with limited dependency upon our business, resulting in unfavorable pricing, quantity or delivery terms. The recent signs of market stability in our business have exacerbated these concerns as we increase our purchasing to meet our customers’ demands. We are currently undertaking programs to ensure the long-term strength of our supply chain. Nevertheless, we are experiencing, and expect for the foreseeable future to continue to experience, strain on our supply chain and periodic supplier problems. We have incurred, and expect for the foreseeable future to continue to incur, costs to address these problems. In addition, these problems have impacted, and we expect for the foreseeable future will continue to impact, our ability to meet customer expectations. If we do not identify and implement long-term solutions to our supply chain concerns, our customer relationships and business will materially suffer. 21 Table of Contents The communications equipment industry has extremely long product development cycles requiring us to incur product development costs without assurances of an acceptable investment return. The telecommunications industry is a capital-intensive industry similar, in many respects, to any other infrastructure development industry. Large volumes of equipment and support structures are installed over vast areas, with considerable expenditures of funds and other resources, with long investment return period expectations. Moreover, reliability requirements are intense. Consequently, there is significant resistance to network redesigns and upgrades. Consequently, redesigns and upgrades of installed systems are undertaken only as required in response to user demand and competitive pressures and generally only after the applicable carrier has received sufficient return on its considerable investment. At the component supplier level this reality creates considerable, typically multi-year, gaps between the commencement of new product development and volume purchases. Accordingly, we and our competitors often incur significant research and development and sales and marketing costs for products that, at a minimum, will be purchased by our customers long after much of the cost is incurred (very long “time to cash”) and, at a maximum, may never be purchased due to changes in industry or customer requirements in the interim. Our business and financial condition could be harmed by our long-term growth strategy. Notwithstanding the recent decline, our businesses have historically grown, at times rapidly, and we have grown accordingly. We have made, and expect in the future to make, significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, internal expansion programs, product development, acquisitions and other strategic relationships. We may grow our business through business combinations or other acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. If we fail to manage or anticipate our future growth effectively, particularly during periods of industry uncertainty, our business will suffer. Through our cost reductions measures we are balancing the need to consolidate our operations with the need to preserve our ability to grow and scale our operations as our markets stabilize and recover. If we fail to achieve this balance, our business will suffer to the extent our resources and operations are insufficient to respond to a return to growth. Our sales are dependent upon a few key customers. A few large customers account for most of our net revenue. During fiscal 2005 and 2004 no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue. During fiscal 2003, Texas Instruments accounted for 12% of our net revenue. Dependence on a limited number of customers exposes us to the risk that order reductions from any one customer can have a material adverse effect on periodic revenue. One of our products is dependent upon a single customer for a majority of sales. We have a strategic alliance with SICPA, our principal customer for our light interference pigments which are used to, among other things, provide security features in currency. Under a license and supply agreement, we rely exclusively on SICPA to market and sell to this market worldwide. The agreement requires SICPA to purchase minimum quantities of these pigments over the term of the agreement. If SICPA fails to purchase these quantities, as and when required by the agreement, for any reason, our business and operating results (including, among other things, our revenue and gross margin) will be harmed, at least in the short-term. In the long-term, we may be unable to find a substitute marketing and sales partner or develop these capabilities ourselves. We depend on a limited number of vendors. We depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers, and subcontractors, and suppliers for raw materials, packages and standard components. We generally purchase these single or limited source products 22 Table of Contents through standard purchase orders or one-year supply agreements and we have no long-term guaranteed supply agreements with such suppliers. While we seek to maintain a sufficient safety stock of such products and also endeavor to maintain ongoing communications with our suppliers to guard against interruptions or cessation of supply, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by a stoppage or delay of supply, substitution of more expensive or less reliable products, receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, an increase in the price of such supplies, or our inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. We generally use a rolling twelve and fifteen month forecast based on anticipated product orders, customer forecasts, product order history, warranty and service demand, and backlog to determine our material requirements. Lead times for the parts and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. If actual orders do not match our forecasts, we may have excess or shortfalls of some materials and components as well as excess inventory purchase commitments. We could experience reduced or delayed product shipments or incur additional inventory write-downs and cancellation charges or penalties, which would increase costs and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Any failure to remain competitive would harm our operating results. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing and converging technologies, as well as continuous pricing pressure. We face intense competition from established domestic and international competitors and the threat of future competition from new and emerging companies in all aspects of our business. Much of our current competition comes from large, diversified Asian corporations, and emerging, largely Chinese optical companies. These competitors have considerable optical expertise, and often very low cost structures. The competitive threat is exacerbated by the overall trend towards increased commoditization of traditionally highly differentiated products, particularly in our Communications Products Group. We expect Asian, and particularly Chinese, competition to increase. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, we believe we must maintain a substantial commitment to research and development, and significantly improve our cost structure. Our efforts to remain competitive may be unsuccessful. Risks in acquisitions. Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products and the introduction of new products on a timely basis. We have and will continue to address the need to develop new products through acquisitions of other companies and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • Insufficient net revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and • Potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • Assume liabilities some of which may be unknown at of the time of such acquisitions; 23 Table of Contents • Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • Incur large and immediate write-offs of in-process research and development costs; or • Become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that all pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. Expenses relating to acquired in-process research and development costs are charged in the period in which an acquisiotion is completed. These charges may occur in future acquisitions resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of service from these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Retention of key talent is an increasing concern as we continue to implement cost improvement programs, including product transfers and site reductions, and as we continue to address our profitability concerns. We recently experienced a significant amount of turnover within our corporate accounting and finance department, including the departure of our Chief Financial Officer, Vice-President and Corporate Controller, Treasurer, Corporate Accounting Manager and Corporate Reporting Manager. We have filled these positions and are actively recruiting to fill additional vacancies within our corporate and operations finance teams. In addition we are strengthening the technical capabilities of existing accounting and finance personnel. Our finance personnel in new positions may require additional quarterly reporting cycles to be trained and fully familiar with our historical complex non-routine transactions. Should we be unable to recruit the additional personnel needed in the corporate accounting and finance function to strengthen our technical capabilities or should we increase the demands on our current resources with a large number of complex non routine transactions our internal controls over financial reporting could suffer and result in material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting (see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures). We will also be challenged with the integration of Acterna which will further stretch our finance organization resources. Similar to other technology companies, particularly those located in Silicon Valley, we rely upon our ability to use stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our executive and employee compensation structure. Historically, these components have been critical to our ability to retain important personnel and offer competitive compensation packages. Without these components, we would be required to significantly increase cash compensation levels (or develop alternative compensation structures) in order to retain our key employees, particularly as and when an industry recovery returns. Recent requirements mandating the expensing of stock-based compensation awards may cause us to substantially reduce, or even eliminate, all or portions of our stock-based compensation programs which may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. 24 Table of Contents Certain of our non-telecommunications products are subject to governmental and industry regulations, certifications and approvals. The commercialization of certain of the products we design, manufacture and distribute through our Commercial and Consumer Products Group may be more costly due to required government approval and industry acceptance processes. We have experienced delays in the commercialization of our light engine product in this segment. Development of applications for our light interference pigment products may require significant testing that could delay our sales. For example, certain uses in cosmetics may be regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, which has extensive and lengthy approval processes. Durability testing by the automobile industry of our pigments used with automotive paints can take up to three years. If we change a product for any reason including technological changes or changes in the manufacturing process, prior approvals or certifications may be invalid and we may need to go through the approval process again. If we are unable to obtain these or other government or industry certifications in a timely manner, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. We face risks related to our international operations and revenue. Our customers are located throughout the world. In addition, we have significant offshore operations, including manufacturing, sales and customer support operations. Our operations outside North America include facilities primarily in Asia-Pacific. Our international presence exposes us to certain risks, including the following: • our ability to comply with customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with any unexpected changes in such regulations; • difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and research facilities; • difficulties in staffing and management; • language and cultural barriers; • seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where our international customers are located; • integration of foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • currency fluctuations; and • potential adverse tax consequences. Net revenue from customers outside North America accounted for 34%, 36%, and 30% of our total net revenue in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We expect that net revenue from customers outside North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. Lower sales levels that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and some other overseas markets may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, sales of many of our customers depend on international sales and consequently further expose us to the risks associated with such international sales. The international dimensions of our operations and sales subject us to a myriad of domestic and foreign trade regulatory requirements. As part of our ongoing integration program, we are evaluating our current trade compliance practices and implementing improvements, where necessary. Among other things, we are auditing 25 Table of Contents our product export classification and customs procedures and are installing trade information and compliance systems using our global enterprise software platforms. We do not currently expect the costs of such evaluation or the implementation of any resulting improvements to have a material adverse effect on our operating results or business. However, our evaluation and related implementation are not yet complete and, accordingly, the costs could be greater than expected and such costs and the legal consequences of any failure to comply with applicable regulations could affect our business and operating results. We are increasing manufacturing operations in China, which expose us to risks inherent in doing business in China. As a result of our efforts to reduce costs, we have increased our manufacturing operations in China and those operations are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than those faced by our other operations. In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China (both at national and regional levels) is extremely fluid and unpredictable. Among other things, the legal system in China (both at the national and regional levels) remains highly underdeveloped and subject to change, with little or no prior notice, for political or other reasons. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters. Moreover, the enforceability of applicable existing Chinese laws and regulations is uncertain. These concerns are exacerbated for foreign businesses, such as ours, operating in China. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes to the political, legal or economic climate in China or the inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Currently, we operate manufacturing facilities located in Shenzhen and Beijing, China. As part of our efforts to reduce costs, we continue to increase the scope and extent of our manufacturing operations in our Shenzhen facilities. Accordingly, we expect that our ability to operate successfully in China will become increasingly important to our overall success. As we continue to consolidate our manufacturing operations, we will incur additional costs to transfer product lines to our facilities located in China, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We intend to export the majority of the products manufactured at our facilities in China. Accordingly, upon application to and approval by the relevant governmental authorities, we will not be subject to certain Chinese taxes and are exempt from customs duty assessment on imported components or materials when the finished products are exported from China. We are however required to pay income taxes in China, subject to certain tax relief. As the Chinese trade regulations are in a state of flux, we may become subject to other forms of taxation and duty assessments in China or may be required to pay for export license fees in the future. In the event that we become subject to any new Chinese forms of taxation, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Managing our inventory is complex and may include write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is a complex task. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply or that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing or require long lead times, the general unpredictability of demand for specific products, may result in our maintaining large amounts of inventory. Inventory which is not used or expected to be used as and when planned may become excess or obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could also result in sales price reductions and/or inventory write-downs, which we expect to continue, and historically have adversely affected our business and results of operations. We may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities, including costs under environmental laws and regulations. Our operations use certain substances and generate certain wastes that are regulated or may be deemed hazardous under environmental laws. Some of these laws impose liability for cleanup costs and damages relating 26 Table of Contents to releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Such laws may become more stringent in the future. In the past, costs and liabilities arising under such laws have not been material; however, we are not certain that such matters will not be material to us in the future. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. We are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. Among other things, we have entered into an agreement with Oracle to provide and maintain our global ERP infrastructure on an outsourced basis. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business. In addition, we may be required to spend additional costs and other resources to protect us against damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those we have, our business would be materially harmed. We may not obtain the intellectual property rights we require. Others, including academic institutions, our competitors and other large technology-based companies, hold numerous patents in the industries in which we operate. Some of these patents may purport to cover our products. In response, we may seek to acquire license rights to these or other patents or other intellectual property to the extent necessary to ensure we possess sufficient intellectual property rights for the conduct of our business. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, or substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers. In the past, licenses generally have been available to us where third-party technology was necessary or useful for the development or production of our products, in the future licenses to third-party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, includes payments by us of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or a combination of both. Such royalty or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We are a licensee of a number of third-party technologies and intellectual property rights and are required to pay royalties to these third-party licensors on some of our telecommunications products and laser subsystems. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The industry in which we operate experiences periodic claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property rights. We have received in the past and, from time to time, may in the future receive notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe upon third-party proprietary rights. One consequence of the recent economic downturn is that many companies have turned to their intellectual property portfolios as an alternative revenue source. This is particularly true of companies which no longer compete with us. Many of these companies have larger, more established intellectual property portfolios than ours. Typical for a growth-oriented technology company, at any one time we generally have various pending claims from third parties that one or more of our products or operations infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights or that one or more of our patents is invalid. We will continue to respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. In the past, the settlement and disposition of these disputes has not had a material adverse impact on 27 Table of Contents our business or financial condition, however this may not be the case in the future. Further, the litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development or such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Without such a license, we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. Our future depends in part upon our intellectual property, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We currently hold numerous U.S. patents on products or processes and corresponding foreign patents and have applications for some patents currently pending. The steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any application pending or filed by us and, if patents do issue, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Further, the rights under our patents may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. We have had numerous lawsuits filed against us asserting various claims as noted in Part II of this filing, including securities and ERISA class actions and stockholder derivative actions. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us do not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek and we therefore are unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we are unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation can be costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits, particularly the securities class actions and stockholder derivative actions, have been significant, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Recently enacted and proposed regulatory changes will cause us to incur increased costs. We continue to evaluate our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, we continue to incur substantial expenses. In addition, we continue to acquire companies including Acterna, which we acquired in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to properly integrate the internal controls processes of the acquired companies. Based upon the evaluation of internal controls as of June 30th, 2005, we have determined we have material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to remediate these material weaknesses, implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or implement them with adequate compliance with regard to the acquired companies, we might be subject to harm to our reputation and 28 Table of Contents could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Further, the impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial and securities markets successfully, our operating results could suffer. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and prices of marketable equity security and fixed-income securities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, short-term fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. A substantial portion of our net revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily Canadian, European and Asian currencies. To protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts. The contracts reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. Unhedged currency exposures may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. As of June 30, 2005, we held investments in other public and private companies and had limited funds invested in private venture funds. Such investments represented approximately $29.2 million on our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2005. The stock prices of several of our investments fell in the recent economic downturn; we wrote down the value of these investments if the decline in fair value was deemed to be other-than-temporary. In addition to our investments in public companies, we have in the past and expect to continue to make investments in privately held companies as well as venture capital investments for strategic and commercial purposes. For example, we had a commitment to provide additional funding of up to $10.4 million to certain venture capital investment partnerships as of June 30, 2005. In recent months some of the private companies in which we held investments have ceased doing business and have either liquidated or are in bankruptcy proceedings. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to further write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations or financial condition. We sold $475.0 million of senior convertible notes, which significantly decreased cash to debt ratio, and may cause our reported earnings per share to be more volatile because of the conversion contingency features of these notes. On October 31, 2003, we issued $475.0 million of indebtedness in the form of senior convertible notes. The issuance of these notes substantially increased our principal payment obligations and we may not have enough cash to repay the notes when due. By incurring new indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. In addition, the holders of those notes are entitled to convert those notes into shares of our common stock under certain circumstances which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders and lower our reported per share earnings. Our rights plan and our ability to issue additional preferred stock could harm the rights of our common stockholders. In February 2003, we amended and restated our Stockholder Rights Agreement and currently each share of our outstanding common stock is associated with one right. Each right entitles stockholders to purchase 1/100,000 share of our Series B Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $21.00. 29 Table of Contents The rights only become exercisable in certain limited circumstances following the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of or tender offers for 15% or more of our common stock. For a limited period of time following the announcement of any such acquisition or offer, the rights are redeemable by us at a price of $0.01 per right. If the rights are not redeemed, each right will then entitle the holder to purchase common stock having the value of twice the then-current exercise price. For a limited period of time after the exercisability of the rights, each right, at the discretion of our Board of Directors, may be exchanged for either 1/100,000 share of Series B Preferred Stock or one share of common stock per right. The rights expire on June 22, 2013. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 499,999 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of undesignated preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without the consent of our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of Series B Preferred Stock or any preferred stock subsequently issued by our Board of Directors, under some circumstances, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Some provisions contained in the rights plan, and in the equivalent rights plan that our subsidiary, JDSU Canada Ltd., has adopted with respect to our exchangeable shares, may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change in control. For example, such provisions may deter tender offers for shares of common stock or exchangeable shares, which offers may be attractive to stockholders, or deter purchases of large blocks of common stock or exchangeable shares, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock or exchangeable shares over the then-prevailing market prices. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware laws could hinder a takeover attempt. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of the stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of us. 30 Table of Contents 