Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business As A Network Marketing Company, We Rely On An Independent Sales Force and We Do Not Have Direct Control Over The Marketing Of Our Products. We rely on non-employee, independent distributors to market and sell our products. We have a large number of distributors and a relatively small corporate staff to implement our marketing programs and to provide motivational support and training to our distributors. Directors may voluntarily terminate their agreements with us at any time, and there is typically significant turnover in our distributors from year to year. We anticipate using employees rather than independent distributors to market and sell our products in China. Since We Cannot Exert The Same Level Of Influence Or Control Over Our Independent Distributors As We Could Were They Our Own Employees, Our Distributors Could Fail To Comply With Our Distributor Policies and Procedures, Which Could Result in Claims Against Us That Could Harm Our Financial Condition and Operating Results. Our distributors are independent contractors and, accordingly, we are not in a position to directly provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as we would if distributors were our own employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that our distributors will participate in our marketing strategies or plans, accept our introduction of new products, or comply with our distributor policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our business, our products and our network marketing program. Because we have expanded into foreign countries, our policies and procedures for our independent distributors differ due to the different legal requirements of each country in which we do business. While we have implemented distributor policies and procedures designed to govern distributor conduct and to protect the goodwill associated with the Company’s trademarks and tradenames, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of distributors and their independent status given the size and diversity of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time, especially with respect to our distributors in foreign markets. Distributors often desire to enter a market, before we have received approval to do business, to gain an advantage in the marketplace. Improper distributor activity in new geographic markets could result in adverse publicity and can be particularly harmful to our ability to ultimately enter these markets. Violations by our distributors of applicable law or of our policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on our products and operations, and harm our business reputation. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold us civilly or criminally accountable based on vicarious liability because of the actions of our independent distributors. If any of these events occur, the value of an investment in our common shares could be impaired. Loss Of Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our top management. In November 2005, the Company terminated the top two employees, Mark D. Woodburn, formerly the President, and Terry A. LaCore, formerly the Chief Executive Officer of Lexxus U.S., due to misconduct (see “Item 1. – Recent Developments”). The loss of the services of these two individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also depend on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team. We currently have an interim Chief Executive Officer, and the failure to identify and hire a permanent replacement, or the loss of one or more of our other executive officers or members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Be Unable To Protect Our Proprietary Technology Rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our MarketVision software and other proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of some countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. The reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. 16 Table of Contents Claims May Arise Against the Company From Unknown Oral Agreements and Misconduct of Former Officers and Directors. We continue to investigate oral agreements and misconduct by Mr. Mark Woodburn, a former director and the former President of the Company, and Mr. Terry LaCore, a former director of the Company and the former Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s subsidiary, Lexxus U.S. See “Item 1. – Recent Developments” and “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that all such oral agreements and misconduct have been discovered. Additional discoveries could lead to claims and proceedings against the Company, its subsidiaries and their officers and directors. We are not aware that the Company is the target of any governmental investigation or proceeding. However, if it is determined that any conduct by Messrs. Woodburn and LaCore violated any law, there can be no assurance that the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries would not be subjected to prosecution or adverse proceedings. Any such claims, prosecutions or other proceedings and the cost of their defense could have a material adverse impact on the reputation, business and financial condition of the Company. Adverse Publicity Associated With Our Products, Ingredients or Network Marketing Program, or Those of Similar Companies, Could Harm Our Financial Condition and Operating Results. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or claimed failure of our Company or our distributors to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our network marketing program, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of our business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on the goodwill of our Company and could negatively affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain distributors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. We cannot ensure that all distributors will comply with applicable legal requirements relating to the advertising, labeling, licensing or distribution of our products. In addition, our distributors’ and consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products and ingredients as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies can be significantly influenced by national media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread product liability claims and other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of our or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use, could negatively impact our reputation or the market demand for our products. Network marketing systems such as ours are frequently subject to laws and regulations directed at ensuring that product sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based on the sale of products rather than investment in the sponsoring company. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more of our present or future markets, our marketing system could be found not to comply with these laws and regulations or may be prohibited. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or such a prohibition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further we may simply be prohibited from distributing products through a network-marketing channel in some foreign countries, or be forced to alter our compensation plan. Our Failure To Maintain and Expand Our Distributor Relationships Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We distribute our products through independent distributors, and we depend upon them directly for all of our sales. Accordingly, our success depends in significant part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate a large base of distributors. Our direct selling organization is headed by a relatively small number of key distributors. The loss of a significant number of distributors, including any key distributors, could materially and adversely affect sales of our products and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. Moreover, the replacement of distributors could be difficult because, in our efforts to attract and retain distributors, we compete with other direct selling organizations, including but not limited to those in the personal care, cosmetic product and nutritional supplement industries. Our distributors may terminate their services with us at any time and, in fact, like most direct selling organizations, we have a high rate of attrition. If The Number Or Productivity Of Independent Distributors Does Not Increase, Our Revenue Could Not Increase. To increase revenue, we must increase the number and/or the productivity of our distributors. We can provide no assurances that distributor numbers could increase or remain constant or that their productivity could increase. We experienced a 33% increase in active Lexxus distributors during 2005, following a 97% increase in active distributors in 2004 compared to the prior years (excluding 17 Table of Contents KGC). The number of active distributors may not increase and could decline in the future. Distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience a high turnover among distributors from year to year. We cannot accurately predict any fluctuation in the number and productivity of distributors because we primarily rely upon existing distributors to sponsor and train new distributors and to motivate new and existing distributors. Operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient economic incentive or interest to retain existing distributors and to attract new distributors. Because Our Hong Kong Operations Account For A Majority Of Our Business, Any Adverse Changes In Our Business Operations In Hong Kong Would Materially Harm Our Business. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 49%, 56% and 62% of our revenue, respectively, was generated in Hong Kong. It is anticipated that a higher percentage of our revenue will be generated from Hong Kong in 2006 due to the sales of our interest in KGC in December 2005. Various factors could harm our business in Hong Kong, such as worsening economic conditions or other events that are out of our control. For example, on April 12, 2004, an investigative television program was aired in the People’s Republic of China with respect to the operations of the Company’s Hong Kong subsidiary and the Lexxus representative office located in Beijing. The television program alleged that Lexxus’s Hong Kong operations engaged in fraudulent activities and sold products without proper permits. Due to the adverse publicity caused by the airing of the television program, revenues from Hong Kong declined significantly. Our financial results could be harmed if our products, business opportunity or planned growth initiatives fail to retain and generate continued interest and enthusiasm among our distributors and consumers in this market. Our Proposed Operations in China Could Have An Adverse Effect on Our Hong Kong Revenue. Most of the Company’s Hong Kong revenues are derived from the sale of products that are delivered to members in China. Once we have implemented our proposed operations in China it is possible that sales in Hong Kong could migrate to China. If that were to happen, we could experience a material reduction in sales from Hong Kong. Our Business In Hong Kong, Which Represented 62% Of Our Revenue in 2005, May Be Harmed By The Results Of Increased Government Scrutiny of Our Current and Proposed Operations in China. Since 1998, direct selling has been restricted in China to ten companies that have an approval that the Company does not currently have. In November 2005, the Chinese government adopted an anti-multilevel marketing legislation ahead of its December 2005 adoption of legislation to legalize direct selling. The government has rigorously monitored multi-level marketing activities and enforced these laws. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government found in violation of applicable laws. Governmental actions included shutting down their businesses and arresting alleged perpetrators. Consequently, a few of our direct selling peer companies have modified their business models and started selling to Chinese consumers through owned, leased or franchised retail outlets. We have not implemented our direct sales model in China. We intend to follow the path of some of our competitors and implement a business model that utilizes retail stores and an employee sales force that we believe will comply with applicable regulations. However, currently the Company is generating revenue from its members in China in a manner that, while the Company does not believe violates the anti-multilevel marketing legislation in China, could be deemed by the Chinese government to violate such legislation. We Could Be Required To Modify Our Compensation Plan In China In A Way That Could Make It Less Attractive To Members, And This Could Have A Significant Adverse Affect On Our Revenue. We could be required to modify our compensation plan in China in a way that could make it less attractive to members. Any such modification to our compensation plan could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on revenue. Moreover, the business model that we anticipate implementing in China will likely involve costs and expenses that we do not generally incur in the e-commerce business that we have historically operated in other markets, including Hong Kong. As a result, the business that we ultimately are able to conduct in China could be materially less profitable than the e-commerce business that we have historically operated in Hong Kong. The Company’s E-Commerce Business In Hong Kong, Which Represents A Significant Portion Of The Company’s Total Revenue, Could Be Adversely Affected By The Activities Of The Members In China, If Members In China Engage In Activities That Are Deemed To Violate China’s Anti-Multilevel Marketing Laws. While the Company has strictly forbidden any of its members in China to engage in activities that violate China’s anti-multilevel marketing laws, some of our members in China have engaged in such activities. In Dongguan, four of our members were detained for questioning in October 2005 with regard to possible violation of Chinese law regarding the maximum number of people who can attend a meeting as well as possible improper network marketing business activity. Charges were never filed and all individuals were released. In April, 2006, a media report indicated that someone was detained by Public Security in Changsha for investigation of similar allegations. The Company has not been able to determine if the individual in question is, in fact, a member and whether or not any laws were actually broken. Initial inquiries made by retained Chinese counsel indicate that no one is still being detained or has been charged. Reviews and investigations of such activities by government regulators, if any are commenced, could restrict our ability to conduct business. Most of the Company’s Hong Kong revenues are derived from the sale of products that are delivered to members in China. The Company operates an e-commerce direct selling model in Hong Kong and does not recognize this revenue as being 18 Table of Contents generated in China. Orders are taken in Hong Kong. Commissions are earned by members in China based on the same binary model used by the Company throughout the world and are recorded and paid in Hong Kong and denominated in Hong Kong Dollars. Commission incomes are declared to the tax authorities in Hong Kong. Members who order the products register themselves with a Hong Kong address and tax ID number. None of the servers on which the Company’s Hong Kong e-commerce activities are conducted are located in China. Products purchased by members in China are delivered by the Company to a third party that acts as the importer of record under an agreement to pay applicable duties. From April 2005 through December 2005, the importer of record was a related party (see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). The Company believes that the laws and regulations in China regarding direct selling and multi-level marketing are not specifically applicable to the Company’s Hong Kong based e-commerce activity. Nor is the Company aware of any specific laws or regulations in China, or any official interpretation thereof, that govern this Hong Kong centered e-commerce activity. However, there can be no assurance that such laws, regulations or interpretations will not be adopted in the future. Should such laws, rules or interpretations be adopted or should the government determine that the Company’s e-commerce activity violates China’s anti-multilevel marketing legislation, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow and financial statements. There is no way the Company can estimate the effect of such an adverse effect. Although we would attempt to work closely with both national and local governmental agencies in implementing our plans, our efforts to comply with national and local laws may be harmed by a rapidly evolving regulatory climate, concerns about activities resembling violations of anti-multi-level marketing legislation and any subjective interpretation of laws. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employee sales representatives, distributors living outside of China or importers of record are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, restrictions on our future ability to obtain business license or expand into new locations, substantially diminishing our ability to retain existing sales representatives and attract new sales representatives, changes to our business model, the termination of required licenses to conduct business, or other actions, all of which would harm our business. If We Fail To Obtain a Direct Selling License in China, Our Future Business Could Be Harmed. The Chinese government has adopted new direct selling legislation as of December 1, 2005. The Company has submitted an application for a direct selling license in December 2005. The Company thinks it met all of the legal requirements, including capitalizing our Chinese entity with a $12.0 million cash infusion, but there can be no assurance that a license will be granted. Although we currently do not operate a direct selling business in China, our future business could be harmed if the Chinese government turns down our application or significantly defers granting a direct selling license. Intellectual Property Rights Are Difficult To Enforce In China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringers. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately protect our product formulations. Failure to Properly Pay Business Taxes, Including Those in China, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect. Between April and December 2005, the Company’s Hong Kong subsidiary engaged a service provider to facilitate product importation into China and act, or engage another party to act, as the importer of record. The individual that owns that service provider is one of the directors of the Company’s wholly- owned Chinese subsidiary. The Company believes that the amount of duty paid to Chinese Customs on the imported goods by the importer of record was paid at the negotiated rate. However, there can be no assurance that Chinese Customs will not elect, in the future, to examine the duty paid, and if they conduct such examination, they may conclude that the valuation established was insufficient, resulting in an underpayment of duties. As a consequence, the importer of record could be required to pay additional duties and possible penalties to Chinese Customs. Additional duties could range between zero and $46.0 million, plus penalties. The extreme worst case was calculated using the highest possible assessment to the highest possible declared value and assuming that negotiated valuation practices do not apply. The Company believes that any such future assessment of additional duties or penalties would be made against and become the responsibility of the importer of record. There can be no assurance that the Company or its subsidiaries would not also be of assessed with such liability in the event that the importer of record is unable to pay all or part of such amount. As We Continue To Expand Into Foreign Markets Our Business Becomes Increasingly Subject To Political and Economic Risks. Changes In These Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependent in part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. However, there can be no assurance that we would be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis, or that new markets would be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any foreign market. Also, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques would be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures and legal systems from those encountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a given country. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. No assurance can be given that we would be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potential international markets to meet local regulatory requirements or attract local customers. The failure to do so could have a 19 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals. In many markets, other direct selling companies already have significant market penetration, the effect of which could be to desensitize the local distributor population to a new opportunity, or to make it more difficult for us to recruit qualified distributors. There can be no assurance that, even if we are able to commence operations in foreign countries, there would be a sufficiently large population of potential distributors inclined to participate in a direct selling system offered by us. We believe our future success could depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate our business methods, including distributor compensation plan, across all markets in which our products are sold. There can be no assurance that we would be able to further develop and maintain a seamless compensation program. An Increase In The Amount Of Compensation Paid To Distributors Would Reduce Profitability. A significant expense is the payment of compensation to our distributors. We paid approximately 44%, 51% and 52% in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, of our net revenues as compensation to our distributors. The increase is due to the growth of the distributor network and number of down-line levels, an elevated level of promotions, local promotional programs and various business development agreements. We compensate our distributors by paying commissions, bonuses, and certain awards and prizes. We closely monitor the amount of compensation to distributors paid as a percentage of net sales and may need to adjust our compensation plan to prevent distributor compensation from having a significant adverse effect on earnings. There can be no assurance that these changes or future changes to our compensation plan or product pricing would be successful in maintaining the level of distributor compensation expense as a percentage of net sales. Furthermore, these changes may make it difficult to recruit and retain qualified and motivated distributors. An increase in compensation payments to distributors as a percentage of net sales will reduce our profitability. Under our current compensation plan, commissions may be limited to 60% of sales. See “Item 1. – Working with Distributors – Compensation Plans.” There May be Unfavorable Reactions to or Challenges to Our Use the New Name We Have Selected for our Lexxus Subsidiaries, Internet Sites and Certain Products. In connection with the settlement of a lawsuit, the Company is obligated to change the name of its Lexxus subsidiaries, websites and certain products (see “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings”). It is anticipated that, by June 1, 2006, the Company will change the name of Lexxus International to NHT Global, Inc. and the terms “Lexxus” and “Lexxus International” will be replaced in all other uses by the Company and its subsidiaries by the terms “NHT Global” or a variation that includes “NHT” or “Natural Health Trends”. The financial condition of the Company could be materially affected by unfavorable reaction of distributors and customers to these new names or by claims of prior rights to these names in one or more countries. We Do Not Have Product Liability Insurance And Product Liability Claims Could Hurt Our Business. Currently, we do not have product liability insurance, although the insurance carried by our suppliers may cover certain product liability claims against us. Nevertheless, we do not conduct or sponsor clinical studies of our products. As a marketer of nutraceuticals, cosmetics and other products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies, we may become subjected to various product liability claims, including that: • our products contain contaminants; • our products include inadequate instructions as to their uses; or • our products include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. Especially since we do not have direct product liability insurance, it is possible that product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. In November 2004, Dorothy Porter filed a complaint against the Company for strict liability, breach of warranty and negligence in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois, alleging that she sustained a brain hemorrhage after taking Formula One, an ephedra-containing product marketed by Kaire Nutraceuticals, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company. See “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings”. If our suppliers’ product liability insurance fails to cover product liability claims or other product liability claims, or any product liability claims exceeds the amount of coverage provided by such policies or if we are unsuccessful in any third party claim against the manufacturer or if we are unsuccessful in collecting any judgment that may be recovered by the Company against the manufacturer, 20 Table of Contents we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may become required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. Our Internal Controls and Accounting Methods Require Further Modification. The Company modified certain of its accounting policies and made other adjustments to our accounting for past transactions, which resulted in the restatement of the Company’s financial statements for each quarter in 2001, 2002, and 2003, for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003, as well as the first quarter in 2004. In connection with the restatement of our financial statements, many of the restatement items are the result of material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls and procedures. Also, in October 2005, the Company’s top two officers at the time, Mark Woodburn and Terry LaCore, the President of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer of Lexxus U.S., respectively, were terminated due to management misconduct. The Company continues to develop controls and procedures and plans to implement additional controls and procedures sufficient to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, we continue to have material weaknesses (see “Item 9A – Controls and Procedures”). If we are unable to development and implement effective controls and procedures, we may not be able to report our financial performance on a timely basis and our business and stock price would be adversely affected. See “Item 9A. – Controls and Procedures.” Non-Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Materially Adversely Affect Us. The Securities Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules which could require us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, beginning in fiscal 2007, an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such internal controls over financial reporting. While we intend to diligently and thoroughly document, review, test and improve our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently than we do, then they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. We Rely On And Are Subject To Risks Associated With Our Reliance Upon Information Technology Systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain distributor records, accurately track purchases and distributor compensation payments, manage accounting operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Although we acquired MarketVision—our distributor software service provider—during the first half of 2004, in part, to gain greater control over its operations, any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our Lexxus Subsidiaries Have a Limited Operating History Which May Not be Indicative of Future Performance. Although our Lexxus subsidiaries accounted for approximately 99% of our consolidated net revenues during fiscal 2005, it has been operating only since January 2001. Our business prospects must be considered in light of the risk, expense and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving international markets. If we are unable to effectively allocate our resources and help grow our Lexxus subsidiaries, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to execute our strategy of expanding our network of independent distributors. Our business depends upon the performance of our Lexxus subsidiaries and, due to its relatively short operating history, past performance may not be indicative of future results. Our success has been, and could continue to be, significantly dependent on our ability to manage rapid growth through expansions and enhancements of our worldwide personnel and management, order processing and fulfillment, inventory and shipping systems, financial reporting and other aspects of operations. As we continue to expand our operations, the ability to manage this growth could 21 Table of Contents represent an increasing challenge and our failure to properly manage this growth may materially and adversely affect our results of operation. Regulatory Matters Governing Our Industry Could Have A Significant Negative Effect On Our Business. In both our United States and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. Product Regulations The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of certain of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the United States Department of Agriculture and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. Failure by our distributors or us to comply with those regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. Product Claims, Advertising and Distributor Activities Our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, as well as claims and advertising by distributors for which we may be held responsible, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate applicable governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental or private actions against us in markets where we operate. Given the size of our distributor force, we cannot assure that our distributors would comply with applicable legal requirements. Direct Selling System Our direct selling system is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the FTC and various state agencies as well as regulations in foreign markets administered by foreign agencies. Regulations applicable to direct selling organizations generally are directed at ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within the organizations is based on sales of the organizations’ products rather than investments in the organizations or other non-retail sales related criteria. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our marketing system could be found not to be in compliance with applicable regulations. The failure of our direct selling system to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. We are also subject to the risk of private party challenges to the legality of our direct selling system. The regulatory requirements concerning direct selling systems do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based. An adverse judicial determination with respect to our direct selling system, or in proceedings not involving us directly but which challenge the legality of other direct selling marketing systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Transfer Pricing and Similar Regulations In many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned by our United States or local entities and are taxed accordingly. In addition, our operations are subject to regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of customs duties are assessed on the importation of our products. Our principal domicile is the United States. Under tax treaties, we are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for taxes paid abroad. As our operations expand outside the United States, taxes paid to foreign taxing authorities may exceed the credits available to us, resulting in the payment of a higher overall effective tax rate on our worldwide operations. 22 Table of Contents We have adopted transfer pricing agreements with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers, which agreements are subject to transfer pricing laws that regulate the flow of funds between the subsidiaries and the parent corporation for product purchases, management services, and contractual obligations, such as the payment of distributor compensation. In 2005, we implemented a foreign holding and operating company structure for our non-United States businesses. This new structure re-organized our non-United States subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands. Though our goal is to improve the overall tax rate, there is no assurance that the new tax structure could be successful. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully challenge these agreements, plans, or arrangements, or require changes in our transfer pricing practices, we could be required to pay higher taxes, interest and penalties, and our earnings would be adversely affected. We believe that we operate in compliance with all applicable transfer pricing laws and we intend to continue to operate in compliance with such laws. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with transfer pricing laws, or that those laws would not be modified, which, as a result, may require changes in our operating procedures. Taxation Relating To Distributors Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect the taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. Other Regulations We are also subject to a variety of other regulations in various foreign markets, including regulations pertaining to employment and severance pay requirements, import/export regulations and antitrust issues. Our failure to comply or assertions that we fail to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. To the extent we decide to commence or expand operations in additional countries, government regulations in those countries may prevent or delay entry into or expansion of operations in those markets. In addition, our ability to sustain satisfactory levels of sales in our markets is dependent in significant part on our ability to introduce additional products into the markets. However, government regulations in both our domestic and international markets can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of some of our products. Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Could Lower Our Revenue And Net Income. In 2005, approximately 92% of our revenue was recorded in markets outside the United States. However, that figure does not accurately reflect our foreign currency exposure mainly because the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar. Our European business, KGC, switched to euro for both selling products and paying commissions at the end of 2004 but has been divested and thus no longer consolidated with the Company in 2006. We also purchase all inventories in U.S. dollars. Therefore, our currency exposure, mainly to Korean won, Singapore dollar, New Taiwan dollar and Australia dollar, represented approximately 12% of our revenue in 2005, excluding KGC. Our exposure to foreign currency fluctuation is expected to increase, as the Company progresses in developing Japanese and Mexican markets. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. The effect of the translation of the Company’s foreign operations is included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity and do not impact the statement of operations. 23 Table of Contents Given our inability to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results, product pricing or our overall financial condition. Further, to date we have not attempted to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange contracts. Failure Of New Products To Gain Distributor And Market Acceptance Could Harm Our Business. An important component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we fail to introduce new products on a timely basis, our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements, or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, limited capital resources, government regulations, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and any failure to anticipate changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. System Failures Could Harm Our Business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our internationally applicable distributor compensation plans, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems provided by MarketVision. The MarketVision systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, software defects and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions implemented by the staff of MarketVision, problems could result in interruptions in services and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limited Product Line. The Company offers a limited number of products under its Lexxus brand (see “Item 1. – Our Principal Products”). Our Premium Noni Juice™, Skindulgence®, Alura® and La Vie™ products each account for a significant portion of our total sales and, together, account for a significant majority of our total sales. If demand for any of these four products decreases significantly, government regulation restricts the sale of these products, we are unable to adequately source or deliver these products, or we cease offering any of these products for any reason without a suitable replacement, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely effected. We Do Not Manufacture Our Own Products So We Must Rely On Independent Third Parties For The Manufacturing And Supply Of Our Products. All of our products are manufactured by independent third parties. There is no assurance that our current manufacturers will continue to reliably supply products to us at the level of quality we require. In the event any of our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes and quality levels at acceptable prices, we will be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources or be able to do so on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of our products will result in a substantial loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns and buybacks. The High Level Of Competition In Our Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The business of marketing personal care, cosmetic, nutraceutical, and lifestyle enhancement products is highly competitive. This market segment includes numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers, and retailers that actively compete for the business of consumers both in the United States and abroad. The market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. Sales of similar products by competitors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of distributors from other direct selling organizations, including those that market similar products. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, offer a wider array of products, have far greater financial resources and many more active distributors than we have. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining distributors through an attractive compensation plan and other incentives. We believe that our compensation and incentive programs provide our distributors with significant earning potential. However, we cannot be sure that our programs for recruitment and retention of distributors would be successful. 24 Table of Contents Terrorist Attacks, Acts Of War, Epidemics Or Other Communicable Diseases Or Any Other Natural Disasters May Seriously Harm Our Business. Terrorist attacks, or acts of war or natural disasters may cause damage or disruption to our Company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility, such as the Chinese objection to the Taiwan independence movement and its resultant tension in the Taiwan Strait, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Additionally, natural disasters less severe than the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in December 2004 may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Disappointing Quarterly Revenue Or Operating Results Could Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and do fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our Common Stock Is Particularly Subject To Volatility Because Of The Industry That We Are In. The market prices of securities of direct selling companies, have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Substantial Dilution May Occur From The Exercise of Outstanding Options or Warrants As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding (i) options to purchase an aggregate of 1,922,124 shares of our common stock at exercise prices between $1.00 and $18.11, and (ii) warrants outstanding from the October 2004 private placement of units exercisable for 1,080,504 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to $12.47 per share. In the event that these options and warrants are exercised, and the shares issued upon such exercise are sold, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. In addition, holders of such options and warrants are likely to exercise them when, in all likelihood, the Company could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable to the Company than those provided by the options and warrants. Further, while our options and warrants are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which the Company could obtain additional capital. Moreover, on February 10, 2006, the Company entered into an Escrow Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Messrs. Woodburn and LaCore, the LaCore and Woodburn Partnership, an affiliate of Woodburn and LaCore, and Krage and Janvey LLP, as escrow agent (the “Agent”). Pursuant to the Agreement, (i) the Company agreed to issue and deposit with the Agent stock certificates in the name of the Agent representing an aggregate of 1,081,066 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Escrowed Shares”) and (ii) Woodburn and LaCore deposited with the Agent $1,206,000 in immediately available funds (the “Cash Deposit”). The Escrowed Shares are the shares of common stock issuable upon the cashless exercise of certain options issued in 2001 and 2002 to LaCore and the LaCore and Woodburn Partnership exercisable at $1.00 and $1.10 per share. The number of Escrow Shares is based upon the closing price of the Company’s common stock on February 9, 2006 of $10.14 and the surrender of 118,934 option shares as payment of the aggregate exercise price of $1,206,000. The Escrowed Shares were issued pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, to the Agent upon receipt from the Agent of an irrevocable proxy (the “Proxy”) to the Company to vote the Escrowed Shares on all matters presented at meetings of stockholders or any written consent executed in lieu thereof. The parties have agreed that the Agent will hold the Escrowed Shares and the Cash Deposit until it receives (i) joint written instructions from the Company, Woodburn and LaCore, or (ii) a final non-appealable order from a court of competent jurisdiction. Each of the Company and Woodburn and LaCore has further agreed that all current and future rights, claims, defenses and causes of actions they have or may have against each other are preserved. If the Escrowed Shares are released to Woodburn and LaCore or sold to a third party, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. 25 Table of Contents Future Sales By the Company or Existing Security Holders Could Depress The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. If the Company or our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of the common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that the Company or our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. There is No Assurance That an Active Public Trading Market Would Continue. The Company’s common stock is not heavily traded. The Company’s common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market under the ticker symbol “BHIP” only since February 22, 2005. There can be no assurance that an active public trading market for our common stock will be sustained. If for any reason an active public trading market does not continue, purchasers of the shares of our common stock may have difficulty in selling their securities should they desire to do so and the price of our common stock may decline. If Securities Analysts Do Not Publish Research Or Reports About Our Business Or If They Downgrade Our Stock, The Price Of Our Stock Could Decline. The trading market for our shares of common stock could rely in part on the research and reporting that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 