Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and industry. The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and results of operations. We May Continue To Experience Substantial Negative Cash Flows, Which May Have A Significant Adverse Effect On Our Business And Could Threaten Our Solvency. We experienced substantial negative cash flows during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, primarily due to declines in our revenues without proportional decreases in expenditures. If this trend continued, the decreasing cash balance could impair our ability to support our operations and, eventually, threaten our solvency, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as well as our stock price. Negative cash flows and the related adverse market perception associated therewith may have negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, our ability to attract new distributors and/or sell our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining an adequate level of cash resources and 8 Table of Contents we could be forced to act more aggressively in the area of expense reduction in order to conserve cash resources as we look for alternative solutions. If We Continue To Experience Negative Cash Flows, We May Need To Seek Additional Debt Or Equity Financing, Which May Not Be Available On Acceptable Terms Or At All. If Available, It Could Have A Dilutive Effect On The Holdings Of Existing Stockholders. Unless we are able to stabilize or grow revenues, control expenses and achieve positive cash flows, our ability to support our obligations could be impaired and our liquidity could be adversely affected and our solvency and our ability to repay our debts when they come due could be threatened. We may need to seek additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms in order to improve our liquidity. However, our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing is restricted by the terms of some agreements with our investors. In any case, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, and any new financing could have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. We Face Risks Related To An SEC Investigation, Securities Litigation and Other Litigation That Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Relationships With Our Distributors, Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. We May Face Additional Litigation In The Future That Could Also Harm Our Business. In October 2006, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation to determine whether there have been violations of the federal securities laws by us and/or others involved with us. Although we have fully cooperated with the SEC in this matter and intend to continue to fully cooperate, we cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or its outcome. We could face sanctions in connection with any resolution of the SEC investigation, including but not limited to, significant monetary penalties and injunctive relief. In addition, we and certain of our directors and former officers have been named as defendants in a securities class action lawsuit. Due to the volatility of the stock market and particularly the stock prices of network marketing companies, it is possible that we will face additional class action lawsuits in the future. The findings and outcome of the SEC investigation may affect the class action and other lawsuits that are pending and any future litigation that we may face. In addition, we continue to defend a lawsuit with the bankruptcy estate of John Loghry, a former master distributor for our NHT Global business. Trial of the trustee’s lawsuit has been set for October 2008. Any settlement of the class action and other litigation or any resolution of the SEC investigation may involve significant cash payments that could create or increase negative cash flows. If we are unable to achieve a settlement of the class action and other litigation, we could be liable for large damage awards. There can be no assurance that damage awards, if any, and the costs of litigation will be covered by insurance. If not, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Defending against existing and potential litigation and other governmental proceedings may continue to require significant expense and attention of our management. There can be no assurance that the significant money, time and effort spent will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Could Be Adversely Affected By Additional Audit Committee Investigations. From time to time, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors may investigate, or employ an independent investigator to investigate, reported or suspected violations of laws, ethics, or policies by our officers, directors, employees or consultants. Any discovery of wrongdoing resulting from any such investigation, or any disclosure of any such investigation or its results, could have material adverse consequences for us. Continued Adverse News About Us Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Ability To Attract And Maintain Distributors. Our recent operating performance, changes in management, volatility in stock price, SEC investigation of us and lawsuits filed against us may have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, our ability to attract and retain distributors, without whom we would be unable to sell our products and generate revenues. 9 Table of Contents We Could Be Adversely Affected By Additional Management Changes Or An Inability To Attract And Retain Key Management, Directors And Consultants. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our top management, directors and key consultants, particularly our management personnel responsible for our Hong Kong and MarketVision subsidiaries. In November 2005, we terminated two top employees, Mark Woodburn, former President and director of the Company, and Terry LaCore, former Chief Executive Officer of NHT Global U.S. and former director of the Company, due to misconduct. Although we settled our disputes with these individuals in 2006, continued changes in senior management may have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also depend on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, members of our senior management, directors or key consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, as our business evolves, we may require additional or different management members, directors or consultants, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate, attract and retain them if and when they are needed. As A Network Marketing Company, We Rely On An Independent Sales Force And We Do Not Have Direct Control Over The Marketing Of Our Products. We rely on non-employee, independent distributors to market and sell our products. We have a large number of distributors and a relatively small corporate staff to implement our marketing programs and to provide motivational support and training to our distributors. Distributors may voluntarily terminate their agreements with us at any time, and there is typically significant turnover in our distributor ranks. Since We Cannot Exert The Same Level Of Influence Or Control Over Our Independent Distributors As We Could Were They Our Own Employees, Our Distributors Could Fail To Comply With Our Distributor Policies And Procedures, Which Could Result in Claims Against Us That Could Harm Our Financial Condition And Operating Results. Our distributors are independent contractors and, accordingly, we are not in a position to directly provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as we would if distributors were our own employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that our distributors will participate in our marketing strategies or plans, accept our introduction of new products, or comply with our distributor policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our business, our products and our network marketing program. Because we have expanded into foreign countries, our policies and procedures for our independent distributors differ due to the different legal requirements of each country in which we do business. While we have implemented distributor policies and procedures designed to govern distributor conduct and to protect the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of distributors and their independent status. Given the size and diversity of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time, especially with respect to our distributors in foreign markets. Distributors often desire to enter a market, before we have received approval to do business, to gain an advantage in the marketplace. Improper distributor activity in new geographic markets could result in adverse publicity and can be particularly harmful to our ability to ultimately enter these markets. Violations by our distributors of applicable law or of our policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on our products and operations, and harm our business reputation. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold us civilly or criminally accountable based on vicarious liability because of the actions of our independent distributors. If any of these events occur, the value of an investment in our common shares could be impaired. We May Be Unable To Protect Or Use Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of some countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property rights. The unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could enable third parties to benefit from such property without paying us for it. For example, limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. It is also possible that our use of our intellectual property rights could be found to infringe on prior rights of others and, in that event, we could be compelled to stop or modify the infringing use, which could be burdensome and expensive. 10 Table of Contents Claims May Arise Against Us From Unknown Oral Agreements And Misconduct of Former Officers and Directors. We have investigated oral agreements entered into and misconduct by Mark Woodburn, former President and director of the Company, and Terry LaCore, former Chief Executive Officer of NHT Global and former director of the Company. There can be no assurance that all such oral agreements and misconduct have been discovered. Additional discoveries could lead to claims and proceedings against us, our subsidiaries and their officers and directors. If it is determined that any conduct by Messrs. Woodburn and LaCore or any other current or former employee, officer or agent violated any law, there can be no assurance that we or one or more of our subsidiaries would not be subjected to prosecution or adverse proceedings. Any such claims, prosecutions or other proceedings and the cost of their defense could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and financial condition. Adverse Publicity Associated With Our Products, Ingredients Or Network Marketing Program, Or Those Of Similar Companies, Could Harm Our Financial Condition And Operating Results. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or claimed failure by us or our distributors to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our network marketing program, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of our business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on our goodwill and could negatively affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain distributors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. We cannot ensure that all distributors will comply with applicable legal requirements relating to the advertising, labeling, licensing or distribution of our products. In addition, our distributors’ and consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products and ingredients as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies can be significantly influenced by national media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread product liability claims and other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of our or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use, could negatively impact our reputation or the market demand for our products. Network marketing systems such as ours are frequently subject to laws and regulations directed at ensuring that product sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based on the sale of products rather than investment in the sponsoring company. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more of our present or future markets, our marketing system could be found not to comply with these laws and regulations or may be prohibited. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or such a prohibition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further we may simply be prohibited from distributing products through a network-marketing channel in some foreign countries, or be forced to alter our compensation plan. Our Failure To Maintain And Expand Our Distributor Relationships Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We distribute our products through independent distributors, and we depend upon them directly for all of our sales. Accordingly, our success depends in significant part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate a large base of distributors. Our direct selling organization is headed by a relatively small number of key distributors. The loss of a significant number of distributors, including any key distributors, could materially and adversely affect sales of our products and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. Moreover, the replacement of distributors could be difficult because, in our efforts to attract and retain distributors, we compete with other direct selling organizations, including but not limited to those in the personal care, cosmetic product and nutritional supplement industries. Our distributors may terminate their services with us at any time and, in fact, like most direct selling organizations, we have a high rate of attrition. Following a 97% and 33% increase in active distributors in 2004 and 2005, we experienced a 19% decrease in active distributors during 2006 (excluding KGC and the Kaire Entities which were sold during 2005 and 2006, respectively) and a 41% decrease in active distributors during 2007. The number of active distributors or their productivity may not increase and could further decline in the future. Distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience a high turnover in our distributor ranks. We cannot accurately predict any fluctuation in the number and productivity of distributors because we primarily rely upon existing distributors to sponsor and train new distributors and to motivate new and existing distributors. Operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient economic incentive or interest to retain existing distributors and to attract new distributors. 11 Table of Contents Changes to Our Distributor Compensation Plan May Not Gain Acceptance We completed implementation of a change in our compensation plan for distributors during the second quarter of 2007. Among other things, this change introduced a new bonus value builder feature allowing independent distributors to customize their product packages, as opposed to having to select assortments pre-determined by us, and reduced certain thresholds for earning commissions so that they can be earned earlier and quicker. This change also eliminated a direct bonus feature of the plan. This change did not gain wide acceptance and, in March 2008, we reverted to a modified version of our previous compensation plan for distributors. Thresholds for earning commissions and a direct bonus feature were re-introduced and the payout ratio of certain commissions was increased. If distributors fail to understand the compensation plan or are unhappy with it, we could lose distributors and fail to attract new distributors. Because Our Hong Kong Operations Account For A Majority Of Our Business, Any Adverse Changes In Our Business Operations In Hong Kong Would Materially Harm Our Business. In 2006 and 2007 approximately 67% and 62% of our revenue, respectively, was generated in Hong Kong. Various factors could harm our business in Hong Kong, such as worsening economic conditions or other events that are out of our control. For example, on April 12, 2004, a television program was aired in China with respect to the operations of our Hong Kong subsidiary and our representative office located in Beijing. The television program alleged that our Hong Kong operations engaged in fraudulent activities and sold products without proper permits. Due to the adverse publicity caused by the airing of the television program, revenues from Hong Kong declined significantly. There have been other isolated cases of alleged misconduct by our members in China. If the alleged misconduct of our members in China is finally determined to be illegal and attributable to us or our subsidiaries, then this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In July 2007, we were advised to voluntarily suspend marketing activities in China during the third quarter of 2007 when the Chinese government was expected to impose a more intense enforcement program against illegal chained sales activities. We did not want to run the risk of being inadvertently entangled in the government enforcement actions and voluntarily withdrew all marketing activities from China during that period. It may be necessary or advisable to repeat this action from time to time in the future, and such self-imposed periods of reduced activity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Business In Hong Kong, Which Represented 62% Of Our Revenue In 2007, May Be Harmed By The Results Of Increased Government Scrutiny Of Our Current And Proposed Operations In China. From 1998 to 2005, direct selling was restricted in China to ten companies that had an approval that we do not currently have. In November 2005, the Chinese government adopted anti-multilevel marketing legislation ahead of its December 2005 adoption of legislation to legalize direct selling. Since December 2005, additional companies have been granted a direct selling license, though based on our understanding not all granted licenses were activated and some had been revoked. Meanwhile, the government has rigorously monitored multi-level marketing activities and somewhat inconsistently enforced these laws. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against certain companies, including at least one that has obtained a direct selling license, that the government found in violation of applicable laws. Governmental actions included shutting down their businesses and arresting alleged perpetrators. Consequently, a few of our direct selling peer companies have modified their business models and started selling to Chinese consumers through owned, leased or franchised retail outlets. We have not implemented a direct sales model in China although we have applied for a direct selling license. Instead, we have launched an e-commerce retail model. We cannot conduct direct selling operations in China until such time as we have a direct selling license. Further, the Chinese entity operates separately from the Hong Kong entity, though a Chinese consumer may elect to participate separately in both. While it is not certain if the Chinese government will render the same opinion as we do regarding this model, we believe that the China entity will be compliant as it will not be operating a direct selling model in China until it receives a direct selling license. We Could Be Required To Modify Our Compensation Plan In China In A Way That Could Make It Less Attractive To Members, And This Could Have A Significant Adverse Effect On Our Revenue. We could be required to modify our compensation plan in China in a way that could make it less attractive to members. Any such modification to our compensation plan could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on revenue. Moreover, the business model that we are implementing in China will likely involve costs and expenses that we do not generally incur in the e-commerce business that we have historically operated in other markets, including Hong Kong. As a result, the business that we ultimately are able to conduct in China could be materially less profitable than the e-commerce business that we have historically operated in Hong Kong. 12 Table of Contents Our E-Commerce Business In Hong Kong, Which Represents A Significant Portion Of Our Total Revenue, Could Be Adversely Affected By The Activities Of The Members in China, If Members In China Engage In Activities That Are Deemed To Violate China’s Anti-Multilevel Marketing Laws. While we have strictly forbidden any of our members in China to engage in activities that violate China’s anti-multilevel marketing laws, some of our members in China have engaged in such activities. In Dongguan, four of our members were detained for questioning in October 2005 with regard to possible violation of Chinese law regarding the maximum number of people who can attend a meeting as well as possible improper network marketing business activity. Charges were never filed and all individuals were released. In April, 2006, a media report indicated that someone was detained by Public Security in Changsha for investigation of similar allegations. We have not been able to determine if the individual in question is, in fact, a member and whether or not any laws were actually broken. Initial inquiries made by retained Chinese counsel indicate that no one is still being detained or has been charged. Reviews and investigations of such activities by government regulators, if any are commenced, could restrict our ability to conduct business. Most of our Hong Kong revenues are derived from the sale of products that are delivered to members in China. We operate an e-commerce direct selling model in Hong Kong and recognize this revenue as being generated in Hong Kong. Orders are taken in Hong Kong. Commissions are earned by members in China based on the same binary model used by us throughout the world and are recorded and paid in Hong Kong and denominated in Hong Kong Dollars. Commission incomes are declared to the tax authorities in Hong Kong. Members who order the products register themselves with a Hong Kong address and tax identification number. None of the servers on which our Hong Kong e-commerce activities are conducted are located in China. Products purchased by members in China are delivered by us to a third party that acts as the importer of record under an agreement to pay applicable duties. From April 2005 through December 2005, the importer of record was a related party. See Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe that the laws and regulations in China regarding direct selling and multi-level marketing are not specifically applicable to our Hong Kong based e-commerce activity. Nor are we aware of any specific laws or regulations in China, or any official interpretation thereof, that govern this Hong Kong centered e-commerce activity. However, there can be no assurance that such laws, regulations or interpretations will not be adopted in the future. Should such laws, rules or interpretations be adopted or should the government determine that our e-commerce activity violates China’s anti-multilevel marketing legislation, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial statements. There is no way we can estimate the effect of such an adverse effect. Although we would attempt to work closely with both national and local governmental agencies in implementing our plans, our efforts to comply with national and local laws may be harmed by a rapidly evolving regulatory climate, concerns about activities resembling violations of anti-multi-level marketing legislation and any subjective interpretation of laws. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employee sales representatives, distributors living outside of China or importers of record are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, restrictions on our future ability to obtain business license or expand into new locations, substantially diminishing our ability to retain existing sales representatives and attract new sales representatives, changes to our business model, the termination of required licenses to conduct business, or other actions, all of which would harm our business. If We Fail To Obtain A Direct Selling License In China, Our Future Business Could Be Harmed. The Chinese government has adopted new direct selling legislation as of December 1, 2005. We submitted an application for a direct selling license in December 2005 and, after rules changes, re-submitted an application package in June 2006. In November 2007, we filed a new, revised direct selling application incorporating a name change, our new e-commerce model and other developments. We think we meet all of the legal requirements, including capitalizing our Chinese entity with a $12.0 million cash infusion, but there can be no assurance that a license will be granted. We currently operate an e-commerce retail model in China that is linked to a member’s position in Hong Kong. If we are able to obtain a direct selling license in China, the license would provide us with more options to do business. If we do not obtain the license, we will be impacted but we do not believe that we would be materially adversely affected under our current model. Failure To Properly Pay Business Taxes Or Customs Duties, Including Those In China, Could Have A Material Adverse Effect. In the course of doing business we may be subject to various taxes, such as sales and use, value-added, franchise, income, and import duty. The failure to properly calculate, report and pay such taxes when we are subject to them could have a material adverse 13 Table of Contents effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any change in the law or regulations regarding such taxes, or any interpretation thereof, could result in an increase in the cost of doing business. Between April and December 2005, our Hong Kong subsidiary engaged a service provider to facilitate product importation into China and act, or engage another party to act, as the importer of record. The individual that owns that service provider was one of the directors of our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary. We believe that the amount of duty paid to Chinese Customs on the imported goods by the importer of record was paid at the negotiated rate. However, there can be no assurance that Chinese Customs will not elect, in the future, to examine the duty paid, and if they conduct such examination, they may conclude that the valuation established was insufficient, resulting in an underpayment of duties. As a consequence, the importer of record could be required to pay additional duties and possible penalties to Chinese Customs. Additional duties could range between zero and $46.0 million, plus penalties. The extreme worst case was calculated using the highest possible assessment to the highest possible declared value and assuming that negotiated valuation practices do not apply. We believe that any such future assessment of additional duties or penalties would be made against and become the responsibility of the importer of record. There can be no assurance that we or our subsidiaries would not be assessed with such liability in the event that the importer of record is unable to pay all or part of such amount. If We Continue To Operate In Foreign Markets Our Business Becomes Increasingly Subject To Political And Economic Risks. Changes In These Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependent in part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. However, there can be no assurance that we would be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis, or that new markets would be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any foreign market. Also, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques would be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures and legal systems from those encountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a given country. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. No assurance can be given that we would be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potential international markets to meet local regulatory requirements or attract local customers. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals. In many markets, other direct selling companies already have significant market penetration, the effect of which could be to desensitize the local distributor population to a new opportunity, or to make it more difficult for us to recruit qualified distributors. There can be no assurance that, even if we are able to commence operations in foreign countries, there would be a sufficiently large population of potential distributors inclined to participate in a direct selling system offered by us. We believe our future success could depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate our business methods, including distributor compensation plan, across all markets in which our products are sold. There can be no assurance that we would be able to further develop and maintain a seamless compensation program. An Increase In The Amount Of Compensation Paid To Distributors Would Reduce Profitability. A significant expense is the payment of compensation to our distributors, which represented approximately 51% and 46% of net sales during 2006 and 2007, respectively. Factors impacting the overall commission payout include the growth and depth of the distributor network, the distributor retention rate, the level of promotions, local promotional programs and business development agreements. We compensate our distributors by paying commissions, bonuses, and certain awards and prizes. We closely monitor the amount of compensation paid to distributors as a percentage of net sales and have recently implemented adjustments to our compensation plan to provide, in our view, a more viable and sustainable business model for both us and our distributors. There can be no assurance that these changes or future changes to our compensation plan or product pricing would be successful in maintaining the level of distributor compensation expense as a percentage of net sales. Furthermore, these changes may make it difficult to recruit and retain qualified and motivated distributors. An increase in compensation payments to distributors as a percentage of net sales will reduce our profitability. We Do Not Have Product Liability Insurance And Product Liability Claims Could Hurt Our Business. Currently, we do not have product liability insurance, although the insurance carried by our suppliers may cover certain product liability claims against us. As a marketer of nutraceuticals, cosmetics and other products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies, we may become subjected to various product liability claims, including that: 14 Table of Contents • our products contain contaminants; • our products include inadequate instructions as to their uses; or • our products include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. If our suppliers’ product liability insurance fails to cover product liability claims or other product liability claims, or any product liability claims exceeds the amount of coverage provided by such policies or if we are unsuccessful in any third party claim against the manufacturer or if we are unsuccessful in collecting any judgment that may be recovered by us against the manufacturer, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may become required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. Especially since we do not have direct product liability insurance, it is possible that product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. Our Internal Controls And Accounting Methods May Require Further Modification. We modified certain of our accounting policies and made other adjustments to our accounting for past transactions, which resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for each quarter in 2001, 2002, and 2003, for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2005, as well as the first quarter in 2004. In connection with the restatement of our financial statements, many of the restatement items were the result of material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures. Also, in November 2005, our top two officers at the time, Mark Woodburn and Terry LaCore, our President and the Chief Executive Officer of NHT Global, Inc., our United States subsidiary (“NHT Global U.S.”), respectively, were terminated due to management misconduct. We continue to develop controls and procedures and plan to implement additional controls and procedures sufficient to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to develop and implement effective controls and procedures, we may not be able to report our financial performance on a timely basis and our business and stock price would be adversely affected. If We Fail To Maintain An Effective System Of Internal Controls In The Future, We May Not Be Able To Accurately Report Our Financial Results Or Prevent Fraud. As A Result, Investors May Lose Confidence In Our Financial Reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to provide management’s assessment of internal controls in conjunction with the filing of this report and we expect that we and other non-accelerated filers will be required to provide an auditor’s attestation on our internal controls as of December 31, 2009, in the Form 10-K to be filed in the first quarter of 2010. As disclosed under Item 9A(T) of this report, our management concluded that in light of a combination of deficiencies at our subsidiary in Taiwan, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007. In the future, our continued assessment, or the assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, could reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. We believe, at the current time, that we are taking appropriate steps to mitigate these risks. However, disclosures of this type can cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. Deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting may negatively impact our business and operations. We Rely On And Are Subject To Risks Associated With Our Reliance Upon Information Technology Systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain distributor records, accurately track purchases and distributor compensation payments, manage accounting operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Although we acquired MarketVision Communications Corporation (“MarketVision”), our distributor software service provider, during the first half of 2004, in part, to gain greater control over its operations, any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of MarketVision in 2004, we and MarketVision entered into a Software License Agreement, with MarketVision Consulting Group, LLC, a limited liability company owned by John Cavanaugh, the President of MarketVision, and Jason Landry, a Vice President of MarketVision (the “Licensee”). Upon an Event of Default (as defined), the Software License 15 Table of Contents Agreement grants, among other things, the Licensee with an irrevocable, exclusive, perpetual, royalty free, fully-paid, worldwide, transferable, sublicensable right and license to use, copy, modify, distribute, rent, lease, enhance, transfer, market, and create derivative works to the MarketVision software. An “Event of Default” under the Software License Agreement includes a “Share Default,” which is defined as our market value per share failing to equal or exceed $10.00 per share for any one rolling period of six months for a certain period following the acquisition of MarketVision. The last time that our stock closed at or above $10.00 per share was February 16, 2006, and a Share Default would otherwise have occurred on August 17, 2006. The parties to the Software License Agreement amended that agreement to provide that no Share Default would occur prior to December 31, 2006. No further amendments have been entered into, and as a result, we are currently in default. Although an Event of Default has occurred, we believe that we continue to have the right to use the MarketVision software for internal use only and not as an application service provider or service bureau, but may not rent, lease, license, transfer or distribute the software without the Licensee’s prior written consent. Moreover, we believe that we have the right to receive certain application service provider services from Licensee, if it chooses to do so. We do not believe that the occurrence of the Event of Default has had or will have a material adverse effect on us. Regulatory Matters Governing Our Industry Could Have A Significant Negative Effect On Our Business. In both our United States and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors are in compliance with all of these regulations. Our failure or our distributors’ failure to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. Direct Selling System Our direct selling system is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and various state agencies as well as regulations in foreign markets administered by foreign agencies. Regulations applicable to direct selling organizations generally are directed at ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within the organizations is based on sales of the organizations’ products rather than investments in the organizations or other non-retail sales related criteria. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our marketing system could be found not to be in compliance with applicable regulations. The failure of our direct selling system to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. We are also subject to the risk of private party challenges to the legality of our direct selling system. The regulatory requirements concerning direct selling systems do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based. An adverse judicial determination with respect to our direct selling system, or in proceedings not involving us directly but which challenge the legality of other direct selling marketing systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. On April 12, 2006 the FTC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking which, if implemented, will regulate all sellers of “business opportunities” in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require all sellers of business opportunities, which would likely include us, to (i) implement a seven day waiting period before entering into an agreement with a prospective business opportunity purchaser, and (ii) provide all prospective business opportunity purchasers with substantial information in writing at the beginning of the waiting period regarding the business opportunity, including information relating to: representations made as to the earnings experience of other business opportunity purchasers, the names and telephone numbers of recent purchasers in their geographic area, cancellation or refund policies and requests within the prior two years, certain legal actions against the company, its affiliated companies and company officers, directors, sales managers and certain others. The Direct Selling Association (the “DSA”) and other interested parties have filed over 17,000 comments with the FTC that are publicly available regarding the proposed rule through the FTC’s website at http://www.ftc.gov/os/comments/businessopprule/index.htm. The DSA and other interested parties also filed “rebuttal” comments with the FTC in September 2006. Based on information currently available, we anticipate that the final rule may require several years to become final and effective, and may differ substantially from the rule as originally proposed. Nevertheless the proposed rule, if implemented in its original form, would negatively impact our business in the United States. 16 Table of Contents Product Regulations The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of certain of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the United States Department of Agriculture and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. Failure by our distributors or us to comply with those regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. On March 7, 2003, the FDA proposed a new regulation to require current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMPs”), affecting the manufacture, packing, and holding of dietary supplements. The proposed regulation would establish standards to ensure that dietary supplements and dietary ingredients are not adulterated with contaminants or impurities, and are labeled to accurately reflect the active ingredients and other ingredients in the products. It also includes proposed requirements for designing and constructing physical plants, establishing quality control procedures, and testing manufactured dietary ingredients and dietary supplements, as well as proposed requirements for maintaining records and for handling consumer complaints related to cGMPs. We are evaluating this proposal with respect to its potential impact upon the various contract manufacturers that we use to manufacture our products, some of whom might not meet the new standards. Product Claims, Advertising and Distributor Activities Our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, as well as claims and advertising by distributors for which we may be held responsible, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate applicable governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental or private actions against us in markets where we operate. Given the size of our distributor force, we cannot assure that our distributors would comply with applicable legal requirements. Transfer Pricing and Similar Regulations In many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned by our United States or local entities and are taxed accordingly. In addition, our operations are subject to regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of customs duties are assessed on the importation of our products. Our principal domicile is the United States. Under tax treaties, we are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for taxes paid abroad. If our operations expand outside the United States, taxes paid to foreign taxing authorities may exceed the credits available to us, resulting in the payment of a higher overall effective tax rate on our worldwide operations. We have adopted transfer pricing agreements with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers, which agreements are subject to transfer pricing laws that regulate the flow of funds between the subsidiaries and the parent corporation for product purchases, management services, and contractual obligations, such as the payment of distributor compensation. In 2005, we implemented a foreign holding and operating company structure for our non-United States businesses, although we have since discontinued our operational use of this structure to reduce costs and because we determined that our United States operating losses will lower our overall effective tax rate. We believe that we operate in compliance with all applicable transfer pricing laws and we intend to continue to operate in compliance with such laws. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with transfer pricing laws, or that those laws would not be modified, which, as a result, may require changes in our operating procedures. Taxation Relating To Distributors Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect the taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. 17 Table of Contents Other Regulations We are also subject to a variety of other regulations in various foreign markets, including regulations pertaining to employment and severance pay requirements, import/export regulations and antitrust issues. Our failure to comply or assertions that we fail to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. To the extent we decide to commence or expand operations in additional countries, government regulations in those countries may prevent or delay entry into or expansion of operations in those markets. In addition, our ability to sustain satisfactory levels of sales in our markets is dependent in significant part on our ability to introduce additional products into the markets. However, government regulations in both our domestic and international markets can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of some of our products. Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Could Lower Our Revenue And Net Income. In 2006 and 2007, approximately 89% and 90%, respectively, of our revenue was recorded by subsidiaries located outside of North America. Revenue transactions and related commission payments, as well as other incurred expenses, are typically denominated in the local currency. Accordingly, our international subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. The results of operations of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations during consolidation since we translate into U.S. dollars using the average exchanges rates for the period. As exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Additionally, we may record significant gains or losses related to foreign-denominated cash and cash equivalents and the re-measurement of inter-company balances. We believe that our foreign currency exchange rate exposure is somewhat limited since the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar. We also purchase almost all inventories in U.S. dollars. Our foreign currency exchange rate exposure, mainly to Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan, and European euro, represented approximately 26% of our revenue in 2007. Our foreign currency exchange rate exposure may increase in the near future as our China and European subsidiaries expand operations. Additionally, our foreign currency exchange rate exposure would significantly increase if the Hong Kong dollar were no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar. Given our inability to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results, product pricing or our overall financial condition. Further, to date we have not attempted to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange contracts. Failure Of New Products To Gain Distributor And Market Acceptance Could Harm Our Business. An important component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we fail to introduce new products on a timely basis, our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements, or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, limited capital resources, government regulations, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and any failure to anticipate changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. System Failures Could Harm Our Business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our internationally applicable distributor compensation plans, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems provided by MarketVision. The MarketVision systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, hacking, disruption of service attacks, software defects and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions implemented by the staff of MarketVision, problems could result in interruptions in services and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have A Limited Product Line. We offer a limited number of products under our NHT Global brand. Our Premium Noni Juice™ , Skindulgence ® , Alura ® and La Vie™ products each account for a significant portion of our total sales and, together, account for a significant majority of our total sales. If demand for any of these four products decreases significantly, government regulation restricts the sale of these products, we are unable to adequately source or deliver these products (we currently source two of these products from a single supplier and the 18 Table of Contents other two products from two other suppliers), or we cease offering any of these products for any reason without a suitable replacement, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Do Not Manufacture Our Own Products So We Must Rely On Independent Third Parties For The Manufacturing And Supply Of Our Products. All of our products are manufactured by independent third parties. There is no assurance that our current manufacturers will continue to reliably supply products to us at the level of quality we require. In the event any of our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes and quality levels at acceptable prices, we will be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources or be able to do so on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of our products will result in a substantial loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns and buybacks. The High Level Of Competition In Our Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The business of marketing personal care, cosmetic, nutraceutical, and lifestyle enhancement products is highly competitive. This market segment includes numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers, and retailers that actively compete for the business of consumers both in the United States and abroad. The market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. Sales of similar products by competitors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of distributors from other direct selling organizations, including those that market similar products. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, offer a wider array of products, have far greater financial resources and many more active distributors than we have. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining distributors through an attractive compensation plan and other incentives. We believe that our compensation and incentive programs provide our distributors with significant earning potential. However, we cannot be sure that our programs for recruitment and retention of distributors would be successful. Terrorist Attacks, Cyber Attacks, Acts Of War, Epidemics Or Other Communicable Diseases Or Any Other Natural Disasters May Seriously Harm Our Business. Terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, or acts of war or natural disasters may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility, such as the Chinese objection to the Taiwan independence movement and its resultant tension in the Taiwan Strait, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Additionally, natural disasters less severe than the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in December 2004 may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disappointing Quarterly Revenue Or Operating Results Could Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our Common Stock Is Particularly Subject To Volatility Because Of The Industry In Which We Operate. The market prices of securities of direct selling companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There Is No Assurance That An Active Public Trading Market Will Continue. There can be no assurance that an active public trading market for our common stock will be sustained. If for any reason an active public trading market does not continue, purchasers of the shares of our common stock may have difficulty in selling their securities should they desire to do so and the price of our common stock may decline. 19 Table of Contents If We Fail To Regain Compliance With Nasdaq’s Independent Director, Audit Committee And Compensation Committee Requirements, Our Common Stock May Be Delisted From The Nasdaq Global Market, Which May Reduce The Price Of Our Common Stock And Levels Of Liquidity Available To Our Stockholders. Our continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market requires us to comply with Nasdaq independent director, audit committee and compensation committee requirements. As disclosed in prior filings, Anthony B. Martino resigned from our board of directors on October 19, 2007, leaving us with one independent director on our two member board of directors, and compensation and audit committees comprised of two members each (one independent and the other serving under exceptional and limited circumstances). As a result, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market (the “Nasdaq Letter”) stating that we are not in compliance with the independent director, audit committee and compensation committee requirements for continued listing. As set forth in the Nasdaq Letter, Nasdaq provided us with a cure period in order to regain compliance with these Nasdaq requirements until the earlier of our next annual stockholders meeting or October 19, 2008, or, if our next annual stockholders meeting is held before April 16, 2008, then we must have it in compliance by that date. We intend to regain compliance within this cure period, but if we fail to do so, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock is delisted, it may become more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market could also result in other negative implications including the potential loss or reduction of confidence by customers, creditors, suppliers and employees, the potential loss or reduction of investor interests, and fewer business development opportunities, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If Securities Analysts Do Not Publish Research Or Reports About Our Business Or If They Downgrade Our Stock, The Price Of Our Stock Could Decline. The trading market for our shares of common stock could rely in part on the research and reporting that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. We are unaware of any analyst currently following our stock. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We Have Broad Discretion To Use The Proceeds Of Our Recent Private Placement Financings. We have broad discretion in spending the net proceeds generated by our May 2007 and October 2007 private placements. We may spend most of the net proceeds from the private placements in ways that ultimately prove unsuccessful. Our failure to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and may also require further funding, which could dilute stockholders’ ownership and cause a decline in the share price of our common stock. Leverage And Debt Service Obligations May Adversely Affect Our Cash Flows. In connection with our sale of variable rate convertible debentures in October 2007, we incurred new indebtedness of $4,250,000. As a result of this indebtedness, we incurred significant principal and interest payment obligations. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources to debt service, especially if the debentures are not converted into shares of common stock or we are otherwise unable to make payments of principal and interest in shares of common stock; • make it difficult for us to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make it more difficult for us to be acquired; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 20 Table of Contents We Could Be Required To Make Substantial Cash Payments Upon An Event Of Default Under Our Variable Rate Convertible Debentures. Our variable rate convertible debentures provide for events of default including, among others, payment defaults not timely cured, failure to perform other covenants not timely cured, cross-defaults not timely cured having a material adverse effect on us, representations or warranties are untrue when made, certain bankruptcy-type events involving us or one of our significant subsidiaries, acceleration of more than $150,000 in indebtedness for borrowed money or under a long-term leasing or factoring agreement, our common stock is no longer listed on an eligible market, we are subject to certain changes in control or we sell or dispose of more than 40% of our assets in a single or series of related transactions, the registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the debentures and warrants issued in our October 2007 financing is not declared effective, lapses or otherwise cannot be used beyond specified periods, failure to timely deliver certificates for converted shares, and a judgment in excess of $250,000 against us, any subsidiary or our respective assets that is not timely vacated, bonded or stayed. Upon an event of default, the holders of the debentures may elect to accelerate the payment of all amounts due under the debentures and require that 115% of the outstanding debenture principal be paid. If an event of default occurs, our available cash could be seriously depleted and our ability to fund operations could be materially harmed. We Are Responsible For Maintaining The Effectiveness of Registration Statements Covering The Resale Of Shares Of Common Stock Underlying Certain of Our Convertible Securities Issued In Our 2007 Private Placement Financings And Will Incur Liquidated Damage Payment Obligations And May Be Subject To Other Liabilities If They Are Not Maintained or If We Fail To Perform Certain Other Obligations In The Related Registration Rights Agreements. Pursuant to our registration rights agreement with the investors in our October 2007 financing, we are obligated to maintain (a) the effectiveness of the registration statement covering the resale of certain of the shares of our common stock underlying the securities issued in the financing and (b) the ability of the investors to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for a specified period. If we fail to comply with this or certain other provisions in the registration rights agreement, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages of 2.0% per month of the aggregate purchase price paid with respect to the unregistered shares of common stock by the investors in the October 2007 financing until the first anniversary of the closing date of the financing and 1.0% per month thereafter through the second anniversary of the closing date. Pursuant to our registration rights agreement with the investors in our May 2007 financing, we are obligated for a specified period of time to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement that we filed with the SEC covering the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of Series A preferred stock or the exercise of warrants issued in the financing. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement due to our intentional and willful act without immediately causing a subsequent registration statement to be filed with the Commission, then we will be obligated to pay in cash an amount equal to 2% of the product of $1.70 times the number of shares of Series A preferred stock sold in the financing to the relevant purchasers. The Agreements Governing The Variable Rate Convertible Debentures And Related Warrants Issued In Our October 2007 Financing Contain Various Covenants And Restrictions That May Limit Our Ability To Operate Our Business. The agreements governing the variable rate convertible debentures and related warrants issued in our October 2007 financing contain various covenants and restrictions, including, among others: • until the first anniversary of the closing of the October 2007 financing, we are required to offer to the investors participating therein the opportunity to participate in subsequent equity securities offerings by us, subject to certain exceptions for, among other things, strategic investments; • until 60 days after the effective date of the registration statement covering the resale of the related shares of common stock (May 16, 2008), we cannot issue shares of common stock or equivalent securities, subject to certain exceptions for, among other things, strategic investments and the issuance of shares of common stock covered by the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part; • until such time as no investor participating in the financing holds any of the securities purchased therein, we are prohibited from effecting or entering into an agreement to effect any financing involving (i) the issuance or sale of common stock or equivalent securities with an effective price or number of underlying shares that floats or resets or otherwise varies or is subject to adjustment based on trading prices of or quotations for shares of common stock, the market for the common stock, or our business or (iii) any agreement to sell securities at a future-determined price; 21 Table of Contents • until the earlier of the date that we obtain stockholder approval of the issuance of all of the shares of common stock underlying the debentures and warrants issued in the October 2007 financing or none of such debentures or warrants are any longer outstanding, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries may issue common stock or equivalent securities at an effective price that is less than $3.52 per share; and • for so long as any of the debentures issued in the October 2007 financing remain outstanding, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries may incur indebtedness for borrowed money other than permitted indebtedness, create or suffer liens other then some permitted liens, amend our charter documents in certain circumstances, repurchase shares of common any of our equity securities other then in certain permitted circumstances, repay certain indebtedness before its due date, pay cash dividends on stock other then our Series A preferred stock, or enter into certain transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The Conversion Of Our Variable Rate Convertible Debentures, The Exercise Of Our Warrants Or The Exercise Or Conversion Of Our Other Convertible Securities May Result In Substantial Dilution And May Depress The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. As of March 12, 2008, we had outstanding 10,290,276 shares of common stock and also (i) options to purchase an aggregate of 55,167 shares of our common stock, all with an exercise price of $1.80, (ii) warrants outstanding from our October 2004 private placement exercisable for 1,080,504 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to $12.47 per share, (iii) warrants outstanding from our May 2007 private placement exercisable for 2,059,307 shares of our common stock at an exercise price ranging from $3.80 to $5.00 per share, depending on the time of exercise, (iv) 138,400 shares of Series A preferred stock, convertible into the same number of shares of common stock, (v) variable rate convertible debentures issued in our October 2007 private placement that are currently convertible into 1,700,000 shares of common stock (plus up to an additional 314,862 shares of common stock that may be issued in certain circumstances under the terms of the debentures, which additional number of shares would increase in the event that we obtain stockholder approval of the issuance of all of the shares of common stock potentially issuable under the terms of the debentures), and (vi) warrants issued in our October 2007 private placement exercisable for 3,141,499 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.52 per share. If these convertible securities are exercised or converted, and the shares of common stock issued upon such exercise or conversion are sold, our common stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. Further, the perception that such convertible securities might be exercised or converted could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. In addition, holders of our warrants and options are likely to exercise them when, in all likelihood, we could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable to us than those provided by the warrants and options. Further, during the time that the foregoing convertible securities are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital. Future Sales By Us Or Our Existing Stockholders Could Depress The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. If we or our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 