Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are exposed to a variety of risks that are present in our business and industry. The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Difficult economic conditions could harm our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging, and it is not possible for us to predict the extent and timing of any improvement in global economic conditions. The economic downturn could adversely impact our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or worsen. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease our distributors' ability to obtain or maintain credit cards or otherwise afford to purchase our products, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. We may experience substantial negative cash flows, which may have a significant adverse effect on our business and could threaten our solvency. We experienced substantial negative cash flows during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, primarily due to declines in our revenues without proportional decreases in expenditures. If we again experience negative cash flows, our decreasing cash balance could impair our ability to support our operations and, eventually, threaten our solvency, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our stock price. Negative cash flows and the related adverse market perception associated therewith may have negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, our ability to attract new distributors and/or sell our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining an adequate level of cash resources and we could be forced to act more aggressively in the area of expense reduction in order to conserve cash resources as we look for alternative solutions. 10 If we experience negative cash flows, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If available, it could have a highly dilutive effect on the holdings of existing stockholders. Unless we are able to stabilize or grow revenues, control expenses and achieve positive cash flows, our ability to support our obligations could be impaired and our liquidity could be adversely affected and our solvency and our ability to repay our debts when they come due could be threatened. We may need to seek additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms in order to improve our liquidity. However, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, and any new financing could have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. The anti-dilution provisions of warrants to purchase 1,645,547 shares of our common stock would, if triggered, cause substantial dilution and may, therefore, make it particularly difficult to obtain new equity financing. The warrants were originally issued under a Securities Purchase Agreement dated October 19, 2007. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.52 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution provisions that reduce the exercise price and increase the number of shares underlying the warrants if the Company issues its common stock or equivalent securities at below the exercise price for the warrants (with certain transactions exempted). Warrants to purchase 149,595 shares of our common stock expire on April 21, 2013, and the remaining warrants for the purchase of 1,495,952 shares of our common stock expire on April 21, 2015. We could be adversely affected by additional management changes or an inability to attract and retain key management, directors and consultants. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our top management and directors. A series of changes in top management since November 2005 may have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also depend on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, members of our senior management or directors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, as our business evolves, we may require additional or different management members, directors or consultants, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate, attract and retain them if and when they are needed. Because our Hong Kong operations account for a majority of our overall business, and most of our Hong Kong business is derived from the sale of products to members in China, any material adverse change in our business relating to either Hong Kong or China would likely have a material adverse impact on our overall business. In 2010 and 2011 approximately 59% and 68% of our revenue, respectively, was generated in Hong Kong. Most of our Hong Kong revenues are derived from the sale of products that are delivered to members in China. This geographic concentration in our business means that events or conditions that could negatively impact this geographic region or our operations in this region would have a greater adverse impact upon our overall business and financial results than would be the case with a company having greater geographic diversification. In contrast to our operations in other parts of the world, we have not implemented a direct sales model in China. The Chinese government permits direct selling only by organizations that have a license that we do not have, and has also adopted anti-multilevel marketing legislation. We operate an e-commerce direct selling model in Hong Kong and recognize the revenue derived from sales to both Hong Kong and Chinese members as being generated in Hong Kong. Products purchased by members in China are delivered by us to one or more third parties that act as the importers of record under agreements to pay applicable duties. In addition, through a Chinese entity we sell products in China using an e-commerce retail model. The Chinese entity operates separately from the Hong Kong entity, although a Chinese member may elect to participate separately in both. We believe that the laws and regulations in China regarding direct selling and multi-level marketing are not specifically applicable to our Hong Kong based e-commerce activity, and that our Chinese entity is operating in compliance with applicable Chinese laws. However, there can be no assurance that the Chinese authorities will agree with our interpretations of applicable laws and regulations or that China will not adopt new laws or regulations. Should the Chinese government determine that our e-commerce activity violates China’s direct selling or anti-multilevel marketing legislation, or should new laws or regulations be adopted, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Because of the Chinese government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, it scrutinizes very closely activities of direct selling companies. At times, investigations and related actions by government regulators have resulted in a few cases where we have paid substantial fines. In each of these cases, we have been allowed to recommence operations after the government’s investigation, and no material changes to our business model were required in connection with these fines and impediments. Although we attempt to work closely with both national and local Chinese governmental agencies in conducting our business, our efforts to comply with national and local laws may be harmed by a rapidly evolving regulatory climate, concerns about activities resembling violations of direct selling or anti-multi-level marketing legislation, subjective interpretations of laws and regulations, and activities by individual distributors that may violate laws notwithstanding our strict policies prohibiting such activities. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our individual distributors or employee sales representatives, or importers of record are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, restrictions on our future ability to obtain business licenses or expand into new locations, changes to our business model, the termination of required licenses to conduct business, or other actions, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various other factors could harm our business in Hong Kong and China, such as worsening economic conditions in Hong Kong or China, adverse local publicity or other events that may be out of our control. For example, we were advised to voluntarily suspend marketing activities in China during the third quarter of 2007 when the Chinese government was expected to impose a more intense enforcement program against illegal chain sales activities. We did not want to run the risk of being inadvertently entangled in the government enforcement actions and voluntarily withdrew all marketing activities from China during that period. It may be necessary or advisable to repeat this or similar actions from time to time in the future, and such periods of reduced activity could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a network marketing company, we rely on an independent sales force and we do not have direct control over the marketing of our products. We rely on non-employee, independent distributors to market and sell our products. We have a large number of distributors and a relatively small corporate staff to implement our marketing programs and to provide motivational support and training to our distributors. Distributors may voluntarily terminate their agreements with us at any time, and there is typically significant turnover in our distributor ranks. Our failure to maintain and expand our distributor relationships could adversely affect our business. We distribute our products through independent distributors, and we depend upon them directly for all of our sales in most of our markets. Accordingly, our success depends in significant part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate a large base of distributors. Our direct selling organization is headed by a relatively small number of key distributors. The loss of a significant number of distributors, including any key distributors, could materially and adversely affect sales of our products and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. Moreover, the replacement of distributors could be difficult because, in our efforts to attract and retain distributors, we compete with other direct selling organizations, including but not limited to those in the personal care, cosmetic product and nutritional supplement industries. Our distributors may terminate their services with us at any time and, in fact, like most direct selling organizations we have a high rate of attrition. Despite an increase in distributors during 2011, we experienced a 37% and 20% decrease in active distributors during 2009 and 2010, respectively. The number of active distributors or their productivity may not increase and could further decline in the future. Distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience a high turnover in our distributor ranks. We cannot accurately predict any fluctuation in the number and productivity of distributors because we primarily rely upon existing distributors to sponsor and train new distributors and to motivate new and existing distributors. Operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient economic incentive or interest to retain existing distributors and to attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors could be harmed by several factors, including: · adverse publicity or negative perceptions regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, our method of distribution or our competitors; · lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; · lack of interest in our existing compensation plan for distributors or in enhancements or other changes to that compensation plan; · our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; · regulatory actions or charges or private actions against us or others in our industry; · general economic and business conditions; · changes in management or the loss of one or more key distributor leaders; · entry of new competitors, or new products or compensation plan enhancements by existing competitors, in our markets; and · potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. 12 The high level of competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. The business of marketing personal care, cosmetic, nutritional supplements, and lifestyle enhancement products is highly competitive. This market segment includes numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers, and retailers that actively compete for the business of consumers both in the United States and abroad. The market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. Sales of similar products by competitors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of distributors from other direct selling organizations, including those that market similar products. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, offer a wider array of products, have far greater financial resources and many more active distributors than we have. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining distributors through an attractive compensation plan and other incentives. We believe that our compensation and incentive programs provide our distributors with significant earning potential. However, we cannot be sure that our programs for recruitment and retention of distributors would be successful. Some of our competitors have employed or otherwise contracted for the services of our former officers, employees, consultants, and distributors, who may try to use information and contacts obtained while under contract with us for competitive advantage. While we seek to protect our information through contractual and other means, there can be no assurance that we will timely learn of such activity, have the resources to attempt to stop it, or have adequate remedies available to us. An increase in the amount of compensation paid to distributors would reduce profitability. A significant expense is the payment of compensation to our distributors, which represented approximately 37% and 38% of net sales during 2010 and 2011, respectively. We compensate our distributors by paying commissions, bonuses, and certain awards and prizes. Factors impacting the overall commission payout include the growth and depth of the distributor network, the distributor retention rate, the level of promotions, local promotional programs and business development agreements. Any increase in compensation payments to distributors as a percentage of net sales will reduce our profitability. Our compensation plan includes a cap on distributor compensation paid out as a percentage of product sales. We have enforced that cap from December 2008, which diluted commissions payable to certain highly-paid distributors. There can be no assurance that enforcement of this cap will ensure profitability (which depends on many other factors). Moreover, enforcement of this cap could cause key distributors affected by the cap to leave and work elsewhere. Failure of new products to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. An important component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we fail to introduce new products on a timely basis, our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements, or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, limited capital and human resources, government regulations, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and any failure to anticipate changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. Direct-selling laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Our direct selling system is subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, which compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and may require the devotion of significant resources on our part. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors are in compliance with all of these regulations. Our failure or our distributors’ failure to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability may decline. 13 We are also subject to the risk that new laws or regulations might be implemented or that current laws or regulations might change, which could require us to change or modify the way we conduct our business in certain markets. This could be particularly detrimental to us if we had to change or modify the way we conduct business in markets that represent a significant percentage of our net sales. For example, the FTC released a proposed New Business Opportunity Rule in April 2006. As initially drafted, the proposed rule would have required pre-sale disclosures for all business opportunities, which may have included network marketing compensation plans such as ours. However, in November 2011, the FTC issued a final rule that will not apply to multi-level marketing companies that do not represent that they or another designated person will do any of the following: (a) provide locations for the operation of equipment, displays, vending machines or similar devices owned, leased, controlled or paid for by the purchaser of the opportunity; (b) provide outlets, accounts, or customers (including but not limited to internet outlets, accounts, or customers) for the purchaser’s goods or services (advertising and general advice about business development and training is not considered as “providing locations, outlets, accounts, or customers.”); or (c) buy back any or all of the goods or services that the purchaser makes or provides. As the Company understands the final regulation, it does not make any of these representations and therefore is not covered by the final rule, which took effect on March 1, 2012. Challenges by third parties to the form of our business model could harm our business. We are also subject to the risk of private party challenges to the legality of our direct selling system. The regulatory requirements concerning direct selling systems do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based and subject to judicial interpretation. An adverse judicial determination against us with respect to our direct selling system, or in proceedings not involving us directly but which challenge the legality of other direct selling marketing systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, there is a risk that such challenges and settlements involving other parties could provide incentives for similar actions by distributors against us and other direct selling companies. Any challenges regarding us or others in our industry could harm our business if such challenges result in the imposition of any fines or damages on our business, create adverse publicity, increase scrutiny of our industry, detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers, or interpret laws in a manner inconsistent with our current business practices. Our products and related activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could delay, limit or prevent the sale of some of our products in some markets. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, importation, advertising, distribution, sale and storage of certain of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the United States Department of Agriculture and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. For example, the FDA requires us and our suppliers to meet relevant current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations for the preparation, packing and storage of foods and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. We are also now required to report serious adverse events associated with consumer use of certain of our products. Other laws and regulations govern or restrict the claims that may be made about our products and the information that must be included and excluded on labels. In markets outside the United States, prior to commencing operations or marketing new products, we may be required to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a ministry of health or a comparable agency. Moreover, a foreign jurisdiction may pass laws that would prohibit the use of certain ingredients in their particular market. Compliance with these regulations can create delays and added expense in introducing new products to certain markets. Failure by our distributors or us to comply with those regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could materially and adversely affect our business. If we are not able to satisfy the various regulations, then we would have to cease sales of that product in that market. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. We cannot predict the nature of any future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, nor can we determine what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, could have on our business. These potential effects could include, however, requirements for the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and reporting requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 14 New regulations governing the marketing and sale of nutritional supplements could harm our business. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. In the United States, for example, some legislators and industry critics continue to push for increased regulatory authority by the FDA over nutritional supplements. Our business could be harmed if more restrictive legislation is successfully introduced and adopted in the future. In particular, the adoption of legislation requiring FDA approval of supplements or ingredients could delay or inhibit our ability to introduce new supplements. We face similar pressures in our other markets, including Europe, which is expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In the United States, effective December 1, 2009, the FTC approved revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, or Guides, that require disclosure of material connections between an endorser and the company they are endorsing and do not allow marketing using atypical results. The requirements and restrictions of the revised Guides may diminish the impact of our marketing efforts and negatively impact our sales results. If we or our distributors fail to comply with these Guides, the FTC could bring an enforcement action against us and we could be fined and/or forced to alter our operations. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies or require us to reformulate our products. Regulations governing the production and marketing of our personal care products could harm our business. Our personal care products are subject to various domestic and foreign laws and regulations that regulate cosmetic products and set forth regulations for determining whether a product can be marketed as a “cosmetic” or requires further approval as an over-the-counter drug. A determination that our cosmetic products impact the structure or function of the human body, or improper marketing claims by our distributors may lead to a determination that such products require pre-market approval as a drug. Such regulations in any given market can limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could face enforcement action against us and we could be fined, forced to alter or stop selling our products and/or required to adjust our operations. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute our personal care products or impose additional burdens or requirements on the contents of our personal care products or require us to reformulate our products. If we are found not to be in compliance with good manufacturing practices our operations could be harmed. FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry have recently gone into effect and require good manufacturing processes for us and our vendors, including stringent vendor qualifications, ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. We are also now required to report serious adverse events associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if regulatory authorities make determinations that we or our vendors are not in compliance with the new regulations. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting our ability to continue selling certain of our products. In addition, compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing certain of our products as we work with our vendors to assure they are qualified and in compliance. Failure to comply with domestic and foreign laws and regulations governing product claims and advertising could harm our business. Our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, as well as claims and advertising by distributors for which we may be held responsible, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate applicable governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental or private actions against us in markets where we operate. Given the size of our distributor force, we cannot ensure that our distributors would comply with applicable legal requirements. 15 Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Our distributors are independent contractors and, accordingly, we are not in a position to directly provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as we would if distributors were our own employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that our distributors will participate in our marketing strategies or plans, accept our introduction of new products, or comply with our distributor policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our business, our products and our network marketing program. Because we have expanded into foreign countries, our policies and procedures for our independent distributors differ due to the different legal requirements of each country in which we do business. While we have implemented distributor policies and procedures designed to govern distributor conduct and to protect the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of distributors and their independent status. Given the size and diversity of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time, especially with respect to our distributors in foreign markets. Distributors often desire to enter a market, before we have received approval to do business, to gain an advantage in the marketplace. Improper distributor activity in new geographic markets could result in adverse publicity and can be particularly harmful to our ability to ultimately enter these markets. Violations by our distributors of applicable law or of our policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on our products and operations, and harm our business reputation. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold us civilly or criminally accountable based on vicarious liability because of the actions of our independent distributors. If any of these events occur, the value of an investment in our common shares could be impaired. Adverse publicity associated with our products, ingredients or network marketing program, or those of similar companies, could harm our financial condition and operating results. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or claimed failure by us or our distributors to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our network marketing program, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of our business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on our goodwill and could negatively affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain distributors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. We cannot ensure that all distributors will comply with applicable legal requirements relating to the advertising, labeling, licensing or distribution of our products. In addition, our distributors’ and consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products and ingredients as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies can be significantly influenced by national media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread product liability claims and other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of our or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use, could negatively impact our reputation or the market demand for our products. We have a limited product line. We offer a limited number of products under our NHT Global brand. Our Premium Noni Juice™ , Skindulgence™ , Alura™ and La Vie™ products each account for a significant portion of our total sales and, together, account for a significant majority of our total sales. If demand for any of these four products decreases significantly, government regulation restricts the sale of these products, we are unable to adequately source or deliver these products (we currently source two of these products from a single supplier and the other two products from two other suppliers), or we cease offering any of these products for any reason without a suitable replacement, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not manufacture our own products so we must rely on independent third parties for the manufacturing and supply of our products. All of our products are manufactured by independent third parties. There is no assurance that our current manufacturers will continue to reliably supply products to us at the level of quality we require. In particular, the ongoing economic crisis creates risk for us if any of these third parties suffer liquidity or operational problems. If a key manufacturer becomes insolvent or is forced to lay off employees assisting with our projects, our results could suffer. In the event any of our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes and quality levels at acceptable prices, we will be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources or replacement products. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources or products or be able to do so on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of our products will result in a substantial loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns and buybacks. 16 Growth may be impeded by the political and economic risks of entering and operating foreign markets. Our ability to achieve future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. However, there can be no assurance that we would be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis, or that new markets would be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any foreign market. Also, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques would be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures and legal systems from those encountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a given country. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. No assurance can be given that we would be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potential international markets to meet local regulatory requirements or attract local customers. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals. In many markets, other direct selling companies already have significant market penetration, the effect of which could be to desensitize the local distributor population to a new opportunity, or to make it more difficult for us to recruit qualified distributors. There can be no assurance that, even if we are able to commence operations in foreign countries, there would be a sufficiently large population of potential distributors inclined to participate in a direct selling system offered by us. We believe our future success could depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate our business methods, including distributor compensation plan, across all markets in which our products are sold. There can be no assurance that we would be able to further develop and maintain a seamless compensation program. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. In 2010 and 2011, approximately 95% of our revenue was recorded by subsidiaries located outside of North America. Revenue transactions and related commission payments, as well as other incurred expenses, are typically denominated in the local currency. Accordingly, our international subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. The results of operations of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations during consolidation since we translate into U.S. dollars using the average exchanges rates for the period. As exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Additionally, we may record significant gains or losses related to foreign-denominated cash and cash equivalents and the re-measurement of inter-company balances. We believe that our foreign currency exchange rate exposure is somewhat limited since the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar. We also purchase almost all inventories in U.S. dollars. Our foreign currency exchange rate exposure, mainly to South Korean won, Taiwan dollar, Japanese yen, Chinese yuan, Russian ruble and European euro, represented approximately 36% and 28% of our revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our foreign currency exchange rate exposure may increase in the near future as our Greater China, Russia and European subsidiaries expand operations and we develop new markets. Additionally, our foreign currency exchange rate exposure would significantly increase if the Hong Kong dollar were no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar. Given our inability to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results, product pricing or our overall financial condition. Further, to date we have not attempted to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange contracts. Transfer pricing, duties and other tax regulations affect our business. In many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned by our United States or local entities and are taxed accordingly. In addition, our operations are subject to regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of customs duties are assessed on the importation of our products. Our principal domicile is the United States. Under tax treaties, we are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for taxes paid abroad. Taxes paid to foreign taxing authorities may exceed the credits available to us, resulting in the payment of a higher overall effective tax rate on our worldwide operations. We have adopted transfer pricing agreements with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers, which agreements are subject to transfer pricing laws that regulate the flow of funds between the subsidiaries and the parent corporation for product purchases, management services, and contractual obligations, such as the payment of distributor compensation. In 2005, we implemented a foreign holding and operating company structure for our non-United States businesses, although we have since discontinued our operational use of this structure to reduce costs and because we determined that our United States operating losses will lower our overall effective tax rate. 17 We believe that we operate in compliance with all applicable transfer pricing laws and we intend to continue to operate in compliance with such laws. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with transfer pricing laws, or that those laws would not be modified, which, as a result, may require changes in our operating procedures. Failure to properly pay business taxes or customs duties, including those in China, could have a material adverse effect. In the course of doing business we may be subject to various taxes, such as sales and use, value-added, franchise, income, and import duties. The failure to properly calculate, report and pay such taxes or duties when we are subject to them could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any change in the law or regulations regarding such taxes or duties, or any interpretation thereof, could result in an increase in the cost of doing business. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect the taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. We may face litigation that could harm our business. We have been parties to lawsuits and other proceedings in the past. Prosecuting and defending potential litigation and other governmental proceedings may continue to require significant expense and attention of our management. There can be no assurance that the significant money, time and effort spent will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect or use our intellectual property rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection of our confidential information and trademarks. Moreover, the laws of some countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property rights. The unauthorized copying, use or other misappropriation of our confidential information, trademarks and other intellectual property could enable third parties to benefit from such property without paying us for it. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, expensive and result in inadequate remedies. It is also possible that our use of our intellectual property rights could be found to infringe on prior rights of others and, in that event, we could be compelled to stop or modify the infringing use, which could be burdensome and expensive. We do not have product liability insurance and product liability claims could hurt our business. Currently, we do not have product liability insurance, although the insurance carried by our suppliers may cover certain product liability claims against us. As a marketer of dietary supplements, cosmetics and other products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies, we may become subjected to various product liability claims, including that: · our products contain contaminants or unsafe ingredients; · our products include inadequate instructions as to their uses; or · our products include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. If our suppliers’ product liability insurance fails to cover product liability claims or other product liability claims, or any product liability claims exceeds the amount of coverage provided by such policies or if we are unsuccessful in any third party claim against the manufacturer or if we are unsuccessful in collecting any judgment that may be recovered by us against the manufacturer, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may become required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. Especially since we do not have direct product liability insurance, it is possible that product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. 18 Our internal controls and accounting methods may require modification. We continue to develop controls and procedures and plan to implement additional controls and procedures sufficient to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis in the foreseeable future. If we do not develop and implement effective controls and procedures, we may not be able to report our financial performance on a timely basis and our business and stock price would be adversely affected. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to provide management’s assessment of internal controls in conjunction with the filing of this report. As disclosed under Item 9A of this report, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2011. In the future, our continued assessment, or the assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, could reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. We believe, at the current time, that we are taking appropriate steps to mitigate these risks. However, disclosures of this type can cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. Deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting may negatively impact our business and operations. We rely on and are subject to risks associated with our reliance upon information technology systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain distributor records, accurately track purchases and distributor compensation payments, manage accounting operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we believe that the members of our software development team have the qualifications, know-how and experience to perform the necessary software development and other information technology services, there can be no assurance that there will not be delays or interruptions in these services. An interruption or delay in availability of these services could, if it lasted long enough, prevent us from making sales, cause distributors to leave our business, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business. System failures and attacks could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our internationally applicable distributor compensation plans, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning of our information technology systems and operations, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, hacking, denial of service attacks, software defects and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, as well as human error. Despite precautions implemented by our information technology staff, problems could result in interruptions in services and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, hackers could attack our system seeking to retrieve personal or confidential information of the company or of third parties, such as credit card information used to purchase our products on-line. Although we take steps to prevent such loss of information, there can be no assurance that our system will not be successfully hacked. Laws in the United States and other jurisdictions where we do business require prompt notice of any such loss of information. Failure to comply with those reporting obligations could result in material penalties. In addition, if our system were hacked, we could incur material costs in investigating the incidents and could be liable for damages. Any such damages may or may not be covered by insurance. 19 Terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, acts of war, epidemics or other communicable diseases or any other natural disasters may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, or acts of war or natural disasters may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility, such as the Chinese objection to the Taiwan independence movement and its resultant tension in the Taiwan Strait, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Additionally, natural disasters less severe than the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in December 2004 may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disappointing quarterly revenue or operating results could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our common stock is particularly subject to volatility because of the industry in which we operate. The market prices of securities of direct selling companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance that an active public trading market will continue. There can be no assurance that an active public trading market for our common stock will be sustained. If for any reason an active public trading market does not continue, purchasers of the shares of our common stock may have difficulty in selling their securities should they desire to do so and the price of our common stock may decline. The exercise of our warrants may result in substantial dilution and may depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 21, 2012, we had outstanding 11,326,323 shares of common stock and also (i) warrants outstanding from our May 2007 private placement exercisable for 2,059,307 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, (ii) 138,400 shares of Series A preferred stock, convertible into the same number of shares of common stock and (iii) warrants issued in our October 2007 private placement exercisable for 1,645,547 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.52 per share. If these convertible securities are exercised or converted, and the shares of common stock issued upon such exercise or conversion are sold, our common stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. Further, the perception that such convertible securities might be exercised or converted could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. In addition, holders of our warrants and options are likely to exercise them when, in all likelihood, we could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable to us than those provided by the warrants and options. The anti-dilution provisions of warrants to purchase 1,645,547 shares of our common stock would, if triggered, cause substantial dilution and may, therefore, make it particularly difficult to obtain new equity financing. Future sales by us or our existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If we or our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. Penny stock regulations are applicable to investment in our shares of common stock Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current prices and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities are provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to penny stock rules. Many brokers will not deal with penny stocks, restricting the market for our shares of common stock. 20 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 