Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. The risks set forth below are in addition to risks that apply to most businesses. The Trustee is in the process of winding down and liquidating the Trust after the affirmative vote of the requisite number of Unitholders. See Trust Termination below in this item. The other Risk Factors set forth below should be considered in light of the wind up and liquidation of the Trust. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Trust’s financial condition and results of operations and the future and current value of the Net Profits Interests could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks not presently known to the Trust or which the Trust considers immaterial based on information currently available to it may also materially adversely affect the Trust. Because of these factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. Trust Termination The Trust received the affirmative vote of the Unitholders of more than 66 2/3% of the outstanding Units to terminate the Trust at the meeting of Unitholders held on January 29, 2008. Upon termination of the Trust, among other things, the Trustee is required to sell the Net Profits Interests. No assurances can be given that the Trustee will be able to sell the Net Profits Interests, or that the ultimate proceeds that will be distributed to Unitholders following such a sale will be equivalent to the market value of such interests or the market value of the Units. Such distributions could be below the market value of the Units. The Trust and Trustee cannot anticipate the results that such termination of the Trust will have on its ability to sell the Net Profits Interests. Specifically, pursuant to Section 9.03(e) of the Trust Agreement, if the property of the Trust Estate (as defined in the Trust Agreement) has not been sold prior to the end of one calendar year following the termination date (prior to January 29, 2009), the Trustee must then cause such assets to be sold at public auction. As the Trust was terminated by a vote of the Unitholders on January 29, 2008, the Trustee anticipates it will continue to consult with the Trust’s and Trustee’s financial and legal advisors in preparing the sales process and obtaining the necessary information required for disclosure regarding the Units to carry out the sale requirement under Section 9.03(e). There can be no assurance at this time of the specific timetable in which the Trust and Trustee would be able to obtain all the information advisable and necessary concerning the Net Profits Interests in order to prepare and finalize the sales process. The Trust’s continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC during the wind up and liquidation of the Trust may pose significant risks to the Trust’s business, which could materially and adversely affect the Trust financial condition and results of operation and the current and/or future value of the Net Profits Interests. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for natural gas produced from the Trust’s Net Profits Interests. The market price is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold those Net Profits Interests to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unitholder over the life of these depleting assets or distributions following a sale of the Net Profits Interests will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unitholder. The Trust can give no assurances of the effect of the results of the affirmative vote to terminate the Trust by the Unitholders on the continued listing of the Units on the NYSE or any other national quotation system. 6 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust Failure of the Trust to make progress in its efforts to complete and file its SEC reports or failing to meet the minimum listing criteria of the NYSE could result in a suspension of the Trust’s listing and trading privileges. If the NYSE does not grant the Trust extensions to file its periodic reports with the NYSE, it has the right to begin proceedings to delist the units. A delisting of the Trust’s units may have a material adverse effect on the Trust, among other things reducing the liquidity and market price of the units. If natural gas and oil prices decline significantly, the Trust’s cash flow from operations will likely decline and the Trust may have to lower the cash distributions or may not be able to pay distributions at all during the wind up and liquidation of the Trust. The Trust’s cash distributions, operating results and the value of the Net Profits Interests are substantially dependent on prices of natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Prices for oil and natural gas are volatile and are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Trust and/or Torch. These factors include: • The domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • The price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • The level of consumer product demand; • Weather conditions, including but not limited to, hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, can adversely impact cash distributions received by the Trust. If the wells drilled on the Underlying Properties and related infrastructure were to be damaged by adverse weather conditions, cash flows distributed to Unitholders could be delayed during the period in which damage to such assets were repaired. Additionally, costs associated with such repairs not covered by insurance would reduce cash distributions received by the Trust; • Overall domestic and global economic conditions; • Political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing countries, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, conditions in South America and Russia, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; • The ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • Technological advances affecting energy consumption; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • The impact of energy conservation efforts; • The capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities to the Trust’s production; and • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of natural gas and oil would have an adverse effect on the Trust’s revenues, cash distributions and current and/or future value of the Net Profits Interests. Trust expenses may have an adverse impact on the distributions to Unitholders during the wind up and liquidation of the Trust. Trust expenses, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and legal fees during the wind down and liquidation of the Trust may have an adverse effect on the ability of the Trust to pay quarterly distributions to the Unitholders. The Trustee has set up a cash reserve account pursuant to the Trust Agreement in order to provide the funds necessary for an orderly wind up and liquidation of the Trust. The estimated reserve quantities in this report are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of the Trust’s reserves. 7 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust Estimates of economically recoverable natural gas and oil reserves and of future net cash flows are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which are to some degree speculative and may vary considerably from actual results. Prices for oil and natural gas are volatile and are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Trust and/or Torch. Therefore, actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operation expenditures may not occur as estimated. As disclosed by the Trust in its Annual Reports on Form 10-K for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and in this Annual Report, on December 30, 2008, Trust Venture Company, LLC filed and subsequently served a derivative lawsuit against Constellation Energy Partners LLC in Alabama state court alleging counts, in accordance with, inter alia, Section 3816 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, codified at 12 Del. C. 3816(a), to (i) recover any overcharges to the Trust by Constellation Energy Partners LLC related to administrative costs, water gathering, treating and disposal costs and severance taxes and (ii) require Constellation Energy Partners LLC to provide an accounting of its revenues and expenses as required under the Conveyance filed of record in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurance as to the outcome or result of this derivative lawsuit or the effect of the derivative lawsuit may have on the calculation of the reserve reports and the estimated reserve quantities. Future results of the Trust will depend upon the ability of the owners of the Underlying Properties to develop, produce and sell their oil and natural gas reserves and the corresponding proceeds from such sales which may vary widely. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The present value, discounted at 10%, of future net cash flows from proved reserves attributable to the Net Profits Interests does not represent the fair market value of the proved reserves, or the price at which the Net Profits Interests could be sold. A determination of fair market value would involve consideration of many factors in addition to the present value, discounted at 10%. An impairment loss is recognized when the net carrying value of the Net Profits Interests exceeds its fair market value. No impairment loss was recognized during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. As more Infill Wells are drilled, they could cause a reduction in amounts payable to the Trust or a purchaser of the Net Profits Interests. The Net Profits Interests include a 20 percent net profit interest in Infill Wells. Infill Wells may recover a portion of the reserves that would otherwise be produced from wells burdened by the Trust’s Net Profits Interests. Since the Trust is entitled to receive 95 percent of the Net Proceeds from production burdened by its Net Profits Interests but only 20 percent of the net profits interest from Infill Wells, the drilling of Infill Wells may reduce payments to the Trust, and ultimately distributions to Trust Unitholders. The Trust’s business is subject to operational risks that may not be fully insured, which, if they were to occur, could adversely affect the Trust’s financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, the Trust’s ability to pay distributions to Unitholders. Cash payments to the Trust are derived from the production and sale of natural gas and oil, which operations are subject to risk inherent in such activities, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, damage to equipment caused by weather conditions, facility or equipment malfunctions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses which are deducted in calculating the Net Proceeds paid to the Trust due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance 8 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust could have a material adverse impact on the Trust’s business activities, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to Unitholders. The failure of an operator of the Underlying Properties to conduct its operations or discharge its obligations in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the Net Proceeds payable to the Trust. The Trust may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect the Trust’s ability to generate sufficient revenue and its ability to pay distributions to Unitholders prior to the windup and liquidation of the Trust. The Trust’s distributions are dependent on natural gas production and prices and, to a lesser extent, oil production and prices from the Underlying Properties. The natural gas industry is highly competitive in all of its phases. In marketing production from the Underlying Properties, major natural gas companies, independent natural gas concerns, and individual producers and operators may provide competition. Many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than the companies marketing the production of the Trust. Competition may also be presented by alternative fuel sources, including heating oil and other fossil fuels. In addition, the Trust and Trustee do not independently monitor the Working Interest Owners financial viability on an ongoing basis which may have an effect on the Trust and its ability to pay distributions to the Unitholders. The Trust’s operations are subject to regulations which may limit the Trust’s production of natural gas or the price that the Trust receives for natural gas. The production, transportation and sale of natural gas from the Underlying Properties are subject to Federal and state governmental regulation, including regulation of tariffs charged by pipelines, taxes, the prevention of waste, the conservation of natural gas, pollution controls and various other matters. The United States has governmental power to impose pollution control measures. If it is determined that the Trust is subject to the Texas margin tax, the Trustee may have to withhold a disproportionate amount from future distributions to pay the tax liability. The Trustee does not intend to pay any amounts for the Texas margin tax for tax years 2008, 2009 and 2010, based on the assumption that the Trust is exempt from tax as a passive entity; however, there is currently no clear statutory authority that the Trust meets requirements for the margin tax exemption as a passive entity. The effective date of the legislation was January 1, 2008, but the tax was generally imposed on revenues generated in 2007 and thereafter (earlier for certain fiscal year taxpayers). If it is subsequently determined that the Trust is not exempt from the margin tax, the Trust would be required to deduct and withhold from future distributions the amounts necessary to pay the margin tax for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, including the tax liability accruing on income distributed after December 2006 attributable to Trust revenues during the four years ended December 31, 2010 from which no tax was withheld. For more information about the Texas margin tax, see Note 3 to the Trust’s financial statements. Federal Regulation The Underlying Properties are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC with respect to various aspects of natural gas operations including the marketing and production of natural gas. The Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act (collectively, the “Acts”) mandate Federal regulation of interstate transportation of natural gas. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 terminated wellhead price controls on all domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993. Numerous questions have been raised concerning the interpretation and implementation of several significant provisions of the Acts and of the regulations and policies promulgated by FERC there under. A number of lawsuits and administrative proceedings have been instituted which challenge the validity of regulations implementing the Acts. In addition, FERC currently has under 9 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust consideration various policies and proposals that may affect the marketing of natural gas under new and existing contracts. Accordingly, Torch is unable to predict the impact of any such government regulation. In the past, Congress has been very active in the area of natural gas regulation. Legislation enacted in repeals incremental pricing requirements and natural gas use restraints previously applicable. At the present time, it is impossible to predict what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the Underlying Properties and the Trust. State Regulation Many state jurisdictions have at times imposed limitations on the production of natural gas by restricting the rate of flow for natural gas wells below their actual capacity to produce and by imposing acreage limitations for the drilling of a well. States may also impose additional regulations of these matters. Most states regulate the production of natural gas, including requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, provisions for the unitization or pooling of natural gas properties, the spacing, operation, plugging and abandonment of wells and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. The rate of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowable from natural gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis or both. Because the Trust handles oil and natural gas petroleum products, the Trust may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances in the environment. Activities on the Underlying Properties are subject to existing Federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of public health and welfare, safety and the environment, including, without limitation, laws regulating the release of materials into the environment and laws protecting areas of particular environmental concern. It is anticipated that, absent the occurrence of an unanticipated event, compliance with these laws will not have a material adverse effect upon the Trust or Unitholders. Torch has informed the Trust that it cannot predict what effect future regulation or legislation, enforcement policies there under, and claims for damages to property, employees, other persons and the environment resulting from operations on the Underlying Properties could have on the Trust or Unitholders. However, pursuant to the terms of the Conveyances, any costs or expenses incurred by the Working Interest Owners in connection with environmental liabilities, to the extent arising out of or relating to activities occurring on, or in connection with, or conditions existing on or under, the Underlying Properties before October 1, 1993, will be borne by the Working Interest Owners and not the Trust and will not be deducted in calculating Net Proceeds and will, therefore, not reduce amounts payable to the Trust. Net Proceeds Attributable to the Robinson’s Bend Field have declined significantly. Prior to December 31, 2002, lease operating expenses were not deducted in calculating the Net Proceeds payable to the Trust from the Robinson’s Bend Field. In accordance with the provisions of the Net Profits Interest conveyance covering the Robinson’s Bend Field, commencing with the second quarter 2003 distribution (pertaining to the quarter ended March 31, 2003 production) lease operating expenses and capital expenditures have been deducted in calculating Net Proceeds. The Trust receives no payments for distributions to Unitholders with respect to the Robinson’s Bend Field when proceeds do not exceed the sum of costs and expenses and the cumulative excess of such costs and expenses including interest (“Robinson’s Bend Field Cumulative Deficit”). The Trust received no payments with respect to the Robinson’s Bend Field during the each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010. The Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama in the matter captioned Trust Venture Company, LLC v. Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CV-2008-900751) approved in all respects the settlement as memorialized in the proposed Settlement and Release Agreement and ordered that the matter be dismissed, with prejudice, costs taxed as paid. In the Order and Final Judgment entered by the Court dated as of April 13, 2011, the Circuit Court 10 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust acknowledged receiving the report from counsel for the trustee of the Trust that no objections to the proposed settlement in this matter had been received, and the Court confirmed after review that the Settlement and Release Agreement is fair, reasonable and adequate. The proposed Settlement and Release Agreement shall become effective on the date on which the Order and Final Judgment becomes final and unappealable, which absent appeal, is anticipated to be June 13, 2011. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The Robinson’s Bend Field Cumulative Deficit at December 31, 2010 (pertaining to production as of September 30, 2010 and excluding Infill Wells) was approximately $6.1 million. Neither the Trust nor Unitholders are liable to pay such deficit. However, the Trust will receive no payments with respect to the Robinson’s Bend Field until future proceeds exceed the Robinson’s Bend Cumulative Deficit. The market price for the Trust’s Units may not reflect the value of the Net Profits Interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Trust Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distributions on the Trust Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties. The market price of the Trust Units is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if the Net Profits Interests were sold to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that, since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Trust Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unitholder over the life of these depleting assets or distributions following a sale of the Net Profits Interests will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unitholder. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because net profits income is not accrued in the month of production, expenses are not recognized when incurred and cash reserves may be established for certain contingencies that would not be recorded in GAAP financial statements. The Trust is dependent on certain service providers to provide various services to the Trust. The Trust and Trustee rely on third party service providers to perform administrative services, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance services and other services for the Trust. Torch provided accounting, bookkeeping, informational and other services to the Trust related to the Net Profits Interests pursuant to the Administrative Services Agreement effective October 1, 1993 and an oral arrangement after termination of the Administrative Services Agreement on January 29, 2008 through April 1, 2008. On November 7, 2008, the Trust and Torch entered an agreement whereby Torch provided certain accounting services in connection with the preparation of the Trust’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Such service agreement expired December 23, 2008. To facilitate the winding down of the Trust, Torch currently provides certain accounting and other services for the Trust pursuant to an agreement with the Trust entered into on March 26, 2009. The initial term of the agreement expired on March 31, 2010. On March 31, 2011, Torch and the Trust extended the expiration date of the agreement by one year to March 31, 2012 or as sooner terminated by written notice from either party 11 Table of Contents Torch Energy Royalty Trust within 5 business days notice. The inability of the Trust to hire qualified services providers to assist in the wind up and liquidation of the Trust may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Trust. Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unitholders or an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust as set forth in the Trust’s Trust Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Trust does not currently have any unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. 