Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our performance, achievements and results to differ materially from those we express or suggest in forward-looking statements in this report or in other materials from time to time. Stockholders and prospective investors should carefully consider these risk factors when deciding whether to invest in or hold our common stock. RISKS ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain Our financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Report of our Independent Registered Public Accountants included herein contains an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not have adequate cash resources to continue our base operations in 2009. The notes to our financial statements address management’s plans to address our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that our business plans will be successful in addressing these issues. If we cannot successfully continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment in our common stock. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We lack the resources to continue our operations and need to raise funds and increase sales At December 31, 2008, we had a working capital deficit of $58,189. We have incurred a cumulative operating loss of $21,391,113 through December 31, 2008. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development activities related to our efforts to develop IoGen and other potential product formulations, and from the associated administrative and patent costs. We do not have enough cash to pay our currently due debts. While we have reduced our expenditures for 2009 by ceasing the clinical development of IoGen, cutting payroll and other administrative expenses, we expect to incur additional operating losses during 2009. In order to continue operations in 2009 we need to raise additional funding and increase sales of IoGen. If we fail to achieve profitable operations, raise additional funding to cover losses and pay existing debts, we will not be able to sustain operations and will go out of business. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, is thinly traded, and is subject to the “penny stock rules.” There is very little market support for our common stock. So long as these conditions exist, future financings will continue to be difficult. This could impact the terms and conditions upon which we are able to sell securities and raise funds. In light of the lack of support for our common stock price, any funds raised through equity financing would likely be at below market and dilutive to our existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we would be forced to cease operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the necessary financing on acceptable terms, or at all, or succeed in increasing sales of IoGen. As indicated above, our independent registered public accountant’s report on our financial statements includes a “going concern” qualification. 9 Sales from our only product have been limited Our only source of product revenue is IoGen, our dietary supplement for the promotion of breast health. We launched commercial sales of IoGen in November 2008. Through December 31, 2008, we have only $391 in product sales. We do not currently have the resources to market the product, so it will be difficult to increase sales. We are exploring relationships with distributors and other wholesale marketing networks to expand sales of IoGen. Unless we are able to fund marketing to support sales of IoGen or enter into distribution relationships for IoGen, we will not be able to increase sales of IoGen. We lack the resources to conduct the necessary clinical trials required prior to commercial sales of our potential drugs Any drug candidates we develop will require significant additional research and development efforts, including extensive preclinical (animal and in vitro data) and clinical testing and regulatory approval, prior to commercial sale. We do not have any active drug development efforts ongoing. Our ability to conduct the necessary clinical trials for potential drugs depends on our generating the resources required to pay for this from future revenues, financings or licensing or collaboration relationships. We may not be able to generate the necessary financial resources or enter into the necessary relationships. We may lose control over development and commercialization of drugs after we license them A key element of our strategy has been to fund most of our product development programs through collaborative agreements with larger pharmaceutical companies. While we do not currently have any such collaborative relationships, we intend to continue to pursue this objective. As part of these licensing relationships we may have to grant to the other party control over the development and commercialization process. For example, a potential corporate partner may be responsible for: · conducting preclinical and clinical trials; · obtaining required regulatory approvals of drug candidates; · manufacturing any resulting products; and · commercializing any resulting products. The potential corporate partner may not be obligated to develop or commercialize any drug candidates under the collaboration. The potential corporate partner alone could control the amount and timing of resources dedicated by it to the program. Accordingly, the potential corporate partner would control the development program. Moreover, the potential corporate partner may view certain drug candidates developed utilizing Symbollon’s technology as competitive with its own drugs or drug candidates. Accordingly, the potential corporate partner may develop its existing or alternative technologies in preference to the drug candidates based on our technology. In addition, the potential corporate partner may have the right to terminate the relationship at any time. Without the involvement of a corporate partner, our limited resources would severely hamper our ability to develop a product. There are a number of competitive products which will impact the potential market opportunity for IoGen We are aware of a number of products currently marketed as high potency iodine dietary supplements. While these products are not labeled to promote breast health, some of these products are used for that purpose. These products have significantly greater distribution networks established. These competitive products will limit the potential market opportunity for IoGen. 10 We may be sued for product liability in the future and our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover the situation We may be held liable if any product we sell, or any product which is made with the use of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise defective during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Although we have product liability insurance, we may not have insurance coverage sufficient in amount and scope against potential liabilities or the claims may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our liability could exceed our total assets. Further, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may not be able to obtain sufficient amounts of insurance coverage, obtain additional insurance when needed, or obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, which could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products or technology. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could have a serious and adverse effect upon our business. We have no marketing experience within our company We currently sell IoGen directly to the market through our online web site, www.BuyIoGen.com. We have no marketing experience within our company. We need significant additional resources to market the product. Unless we raise additional funds or form new distribution relationships, we will have difficulty increasing IoGen sales. We depend on our executive officer for our future success; his loss could adversely effect our ability to succeed As of December 31, 2008, we have only one employee. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of our executive officer, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Paul C. Desjourdy. The loss of the services of our executive officer would disrupt our operations and would adversely effect our efforts to commercialize new products while we worked to replace the employee. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on our employee. As a result, if our employee were to die or become unable to provide services for us, our operations would be disrupted and we would have no means of recovering any resulting losses. Because our iodine-based products may stain or corrode some surfaces, potential applications for our products may not be possible An important aspect of our present and future product candidates is that they must be compatible with the surfaces with which they come into contact. We have ceased efforts to develop products that clean germs from certain medical and dental instruments as a result of staining and corrosion caused by the required concentrations of iodine in the formulations. We continue to investigate the balance between the level of efficacy and the need to avoid staining and corrosion. For any proposed product application, staining or corrosion from a product candidate could be sufficient to limit or forestall regulatory approval or, if approved, could adversely affect market acceptance of such product. We might not be successful in overcoming these staining and corrosion problems. Our use of hazardous materials in our development and commercial efforts exposes us to material potential liability Our manufacturing and development activities involve the controlled use and shipment of hazardous chemicals and other materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling, shipping and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. There can be no assurance that current or future environmental or transportation laws, rules, regulations or policies will not have a material adverse effect on us. 11 We may never receive a benefit from our net operating losses We have not recognized any benefit from the future use of existing NOL carryforwards. We have not recognized any such benefit because our evaluation of all the available evidence does not indicate that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize such benefit. We had federal income tax NOL carryforwards of approximately $18 million at December 31, 2008. Starting in 2008, a portion of our NOL carryforwards will expire each year to the extent they have not been used to reduce taxable income prior to such time. Our ability to use our NOL carryforwards to reduce taxable income is dependent upon, among other things, our not experiencing an "ownership change" of more than 50 percent during any three-year testing period as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. While we have not made the necessary determination, we likely have experienced an ownership change in the past, and, if not, could very likely experience an ownership change from future sales of our securities. If we have, or if we do, experience an ownership change of more than 50 percent as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, it could substantially limit the availability of our NOL carryforwards. Compliance with new requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase our costs and has indicated a material weakness in our internal controls Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in this annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of fiscal 2008. Furthermore, beginning with our year ended December 31, 2009 our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to whether it believes we have maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. We have and expect to continue to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing the system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required in order to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements. We do not have a sufficient number of employees to segregate responsibilities and cannot afford to increase our staff or engage outside consultants or professionals to overcome our lack of employees. Accordingly during our management’s year-end evaluation of controls and procedures we identified this lack of segregation of duties as a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. If we continue to fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running our day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 could be significant. The material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting which we identified could result in an increased chance of fraud, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with the Section 404 requirements, each of which could negatively impact our business, profitability and financial condition. 12 RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK "Penny Stock" rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. Our securities have been thinly traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board, which may not provide liquidity for our investors Our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Stock Market or other national or regional exchanges. Securities traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are usually thinly traded, highly volatile, have fewer market makers and are not followed by analysts. The Securities and Exchange Commission's order handling rules, which apply to NASDAQ-listed securities, do not apply to securities quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. We are dependent on professional market makers to facilitate trading of our securities on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board . If market makers do not register to trade our securities there, stockholders may not have a public market for the purchase and sale of our securities. Quotes for stocks included on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are not listed in newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our securities may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original acquisition price, or at any price. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, therefore, you may never see a return on your investment We do not anticipate the payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any profits from our operations will be devoted to our future operations. Any decision to pay dividends will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available and other factors. Therefore, our stockholders may never see a return on their investment. We may sell additional shares in the future, which could cause the price of our securities to decline We currently have 93,750,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 1,250,000 shares of Class B Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized. Accordingly, we have substantial amounts of authorized but unissued capital stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and applicable provisions of Delaware law provide that we may issue authorized capital stock at the approval of our Board of Directors, and no stockholder vote or other form of stockholder approval is required for us to issue such capital stock. Consequently, we could issue shares of either class of our common stock or our preferred stock in connection with future financings or acquisitions or in conjunction with equity compensation arrangements. The offering prices in connection with those future issuances could be less than the current sales prices of our securities. Any future issuances of any of our securities could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. 13 We may sell additional shares in the future, which may cause existing stockholders significant dilution The sale of shares to fund future operations and continued clinical development of our proposed products, which sales will likely have to be at or below market, will have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. As a result, our net income per share, if any, could decrease in future periods, and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price at the time we sell additional shares, the more shares we will have to issue. If our stock price decreases, then our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution when we sell shares. Item 