ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information in and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on the commercial success of CUBICIN. For the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues will depend primarily on the commercial success of CUBICIN in the U.S., which depends upon CUBICIN's continued acceptance by the medical community and the future market demand and medical need for CUBICIN. CUBICIN is approved in the U.S. as a treatment for complicated skin and skin structure infections, or cSSSI, and S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates. We cannot be sure that CUBICIN will continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers for its approved indications in the U.S. Further, CUBICIN faces intense competition in the U.S. from a number of currently-approved antibiotic drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, including an inexpensive generic product and a recently approved drug, and may in the future compete with other drugs that are being reviewed for approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or are under development, including late stage development. The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN in the U.S., and our ability to grow revenues from the sale of CUBICIN, depends on a number of additional factors, including those set forth below and the other CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section: •the favorable resolution of our patent infringement lawsuit against Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc., or Teva, and its affiliates in connection with the February 9, 2009, notification to us by Teva that it has submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the patents covering CUBICIN; •the continued safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived; •the ability of target organisms to develop resistance to CUBICIN; •risks of any unanticipated adverse reactions to CUBICIN in patients; •maintaining prescribing information, also known as a label, that is substantially consistent with current prescribing information for CUBICIN in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold; •the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived, compared to alternative therapies with respect to cost, availability of reimbursement, convenience, safety, efficacy and other factors; •the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; •our ability to educate the medical community about the safety and efficacy of CUBICIN in compliance with FDA, other federal and state government rules and regulations, and other promotional rules and standards; •the continued growth of the overall market into which CUBICIN is sold; 32 Table of Contents •the level of access that our sales force has to physicians who are likely to prescribe CUBICIN; and •effects of the economic downturn in the U.S. and around the world, which could lower demand for CUBICIN due to, for example, pharmacists', hospitals', insurers' and third party payors' attempts to minimize costs by encouraging the purchase of lower-cost alternative therapies, including generic products like vancomycin, patients electing lower cost alternative therapies due to increased out-of-pocket costs, patients choosing to have fewer elective surgeries and other procedures, and lower overall admissions to hospitals. We market and sell CUBICIN in the U.S. through our own sales force and marketing team. Our sales force also promotes MERREM I.V. in the U.S. Significant turnover or changes in the level of experience of our sales and marketing personnel, particularly our most senior sales and marketing personnel, would impact our ability to sell and market CUBICIN and promote MERREM I.V. As of December 31, 2009, CUBICIN had been approved or received an import license in more than 60 countries outside of the U.S. and is being marketed by our international partners in more than 30 of these countries, including countries in the EU. We cannot guarantee that our partners will be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets. For example, to date, EU sales have grown more slowly than U.S. sales due primarily to lower methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), or MRSA, rates both in and outside the hospital in some EU countries, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S., the evolving commercialization strategy and mix of resources that our EU partner, Novartis, has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. Even if our international partners are successful in commercializing CUBICIN, we only receive a portion of the revenues from non-U.S. sales of CUBICIN. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of CUBICIN, particularly with respect to our litigation with Teva, or our drug candidates and research technologies. CUBICIN Patents/Teva Litigation. The primary composition of matter patent covering CUBICIN in the U.S. has expired. We own or have licensed rights to a limited number of patents directed toward methods of administration and methods of manufacture of CUBICIN. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted to us or to our licensors or collaborators with respect to any of our or their pending patent applications for CUBICIN. Of particular concern for a company like ours that is primarily dependent upon one product, CUBICIN, to generate revenues and profits, is that third parties may seek to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing an ANDA with the FDA, in which they claim that patents protecting CUBICIN, owned or licensed by us and listed with the FDA in what is called "the Orange Book," are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. This type of ANDA is referred to as a Paragraph IV filing. On February 9, 2009, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter from Teva notifying us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of daptomycin, the active ingredient in CUBICIN, prior to the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,468,967 and 6,852,689, which expire on September 24, 2019, and RE39,071, which expires on June 15, 2016. Each of these patents is listed in the Orange Book. The notice letter further stated that Teva is asserting that claims in the referenced patents are not infringed and/or invalid. On March 23, 2009, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in response to the ANDA filing, which we refer to as the Teva litigation. The complaint, which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, alleges infringement of the referenced patents. Under current U.S. law, the filing of the lawsuit automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA for 30 months from our receipt of Teva's Paragraph IV notification letter 33 Table of Contents on February 9, 2009, or until August 9, 2011, unless the court enters judgment in favor of Teva in less than 30 months or finds that a party has failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the lawsuit. In the lawsuit, which is currently scheduled for trial beginning on April 25, 2011, the court may find the patents that are the subject of the notice letter invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. During the period in which the Teva litigation is pending, the uncertainty of its outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in the Teva litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in the Teva litigation will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Proprietary Rights Generally. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN, our drug candidates, and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third party challenges, including with respect to generic challenges. We cannot be sure that our patents and patent applications, including those that we own or license from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions; •the actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country; •the laws of foreign countries in which we market our drug products may afford little or no effective protection to our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors' ability to compete with us in such countries; •intellectual property laws and regulations and legal standards relating to the validity, scope and enforcement of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing and changing, both in the U.S. and in other important markets outside the U.S.; •because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that the named applicants or inventors of the subject matter covered by our patent applications or patents, whether directly owned by us or licensed to us, were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions; •third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us; and •the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents with narrow coverage. We cannot assure you that the patents or the unpatented proprietary technology we hold or have rights to will be commercially useful in protecting CUBICIN or our other drug candidates. Even if we have valid and enforceable patents, these patents still may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competing products or processes. If our licensors, collaborators or consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Such inventions and/or processes will not necessarily become our property but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. 34 Table of Contents Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. We have and may in the future engage in collaborations, sponsored research agreements, and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions that have received and may receive funding from U.S. government agencies. As a result of these arrangements, the U.S. government or certain third parties may have rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations and agreements as required by law or by such agreements. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our manufacturing and product development activities. To the extent that we maintain a competitive advantage by relying on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary information, such competitive advantage may be compromised if others independently develop the same or similar technology, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary information in part through confidentiality provisions and invention assignment provisions in agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements could be invalidated or breached and we might not have adequate remedies. Our trademarks, CUBICIN and Cubist, in the aggregate are considered to be material to our business. These trademarks are covered by registrations or pending applications for registration in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. We cannot assure you that the trademark protection that we have pursued or will pursue in the future will afford us commercial protection. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN and other products that we are commercializing and developing. CUBICIN. We do not have the capability to manufacture our own CUBICIN active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, or CUBICIN finished drug product. We contract with ACS Dobfar SpA, or ACSD, to manufacture and supply us with CUBICIN API for commercial purposes. ACSD is our sole provider of our commercial supply of CUBICIN API. ACSD currently stores some CUBICIN API at its facilities in Italy. In order to offset the risk of a single-source API supplier, we currently hold a safety stock of API in addition to what is stored at ACSD. Any disaster at the facilities where we hold this safety stock, such as a fire or loss of power, that causes a loss of this safety stock would heighten the risk that we face from having only one supplier of API. ACSD is currently in the process of expanding and making certain improvements to its CUBICIN API manufacturing facility. We are assisting in the planning for this project and sharing the costs. Any unanticipated delays in this project may result in our inability to achieve supply of CUBICIN API in adequate quantities to meet demand and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any significant unanticipated additional costs of this project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We contract with both Hospira Worldwide, Inc., or Hospira, and Oso Biopharmaceuticals Manufacturing, LLC, or Oso, to manufacture and supply to us finished drug product. If Hospira, Oso, or, in particular, ACSD, experience any significant difficulties in their respective manufacturing processes, including any difficulties with their raw materials, if they have significant problems with their businesses, including lack of capacity, whether as a result of the constrained credit and financial markets or otherwise, or if our relationship with any of these manufacturers terminates, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN. Any such supply interruptions could impair our ability to supply CUBICIN at required levels. Because of the significant regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify a new API or finished drug product supplier, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN if we decided to 35 Table of Contents transfer the manufacture of CUBICIN API or the finished drug product to one or more other suppliers in an effort to address these or any other difficulties with our current suppliers. Because the ACSD manufacturing facilities are located in Italy, we must ship CUBICIN API to the U.S. for finishing, packaging and labeling. Each shipment of API is of significant value. While in transit to the U.S., stored at our warehouser, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc., or in transit to our finished product manufacturers, our API could be lost or become adulterated. Depending on when in this process the API is lost or adulterated, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN and our financial performance could be impacted. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of CUBICIN API due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability, particularly if any of such events took place in Italy where ACSD is located. Reliance on third-party suppliers also entails risks, to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including reliance, in part, on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance. Our third-party suppliers may not be able to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. Failure of our third-party suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in their inability to continue supplying us in a timely manner and could also be the basis for sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our financial performance. Other Products. Under our agreement with AstraZeneca for MERREM I.V., we do not have the capability to manufacture and supply MERREM I.V. Any interruption in supply of MERREM I.V. would likely cause us to fail to generate the revenues that we expect from our promotion of MERREM I.V. In addition, if the third party suppliers of our pipeline products fail to supply us with sufficient quantities of bulk or finished products to meet our development needs, our development of these products could be stopped, delayed or impeded. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and may face additional competition in the future, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, including from Teva, who is seeking to market a generic version of CUBICIN. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, such as larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Our competitors may develop, acquire or license on an exclusive basis technologies and drug products that are safer, easier to administer, more effective, or less costly than CUBICIN or any drug candidate that we may have or develop, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. If price competition inhibits the continued acceptance of CUBICIN, if physicians prefer other drug products over CUBICIN, or if physicians switch to new drug products or choose to reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Competition in the market for therapeutic products that address serious Gram-positive bacterial infections is intense. CUBICIN faces competition in the U.S. from commercially available drugs such as vancomycin, marketed generically by Abbott Laboratories, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and others, Zyvox®, marketed by Pfizer, Inc., or Pfizer, Synercid®, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Tygacil®, marketed by Wyeth, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer. In particular, vancomycin has been a widely used and well known antibiotic for over 40 years and is sold in a relatively inexpensive 36 Table of Contents generic form. CUBICIN also faces competition from VIBATIV™ (telavancin), which was approved by the FDA in September 2009 as a treatment for cSSSI and will be co-marketed in the U.S. by Astellas Pharma US, Inc. and Theravance, Inc. In addition, CUBICIN may, if Teva's ANDA is approved and/or another third party files an ANDA that is ultimately approved, face competition in the U.S. from generic versions of CUBICIN. Teva's launch of a generic version of CUBICIN could occur after the district court proceeding if the district court rules in favor of Teva or before the completion of the district court proceeding if the 30-month statutory stay (as shortened or lengthened by the court), which is currently expected to expire in August 2011, has expired and Teva decides to launch prior to the district court decision. CUBICIN may also face competition in the future from drug candidates currently in clinical development, including drug candidates being developed as treatments for cSSSI for which NDAs have been filed. These include oritavancin, which is being developed by The Medicines Company, ceftaroline, which is being developed by Forest Laboratories, Inc., and ceftobiprole, which is being developed by Basilea Pharmaceutica AG. In February 2010 a division of Johnson & Johnson which has global rights to ceftobiprole, provided notice to Basilea of its intent to relinquish such rights. MERREM I.V. faces competition in the U.S. from commercially available drugs such as Primaxin® I.V., marketed by Merck as well as Doribax®, marketed by Ortho-McNeil, a Johnson & Johnson company, and may face competition from generic versions of MERREM I.V. as the composition of matter patent for MERREM I.V. expires in June 2010. Primaxin I.V. has been a widely used and well known antibiotic for over 20 years, and generic Primaxin may be introduced in the U.S. shortly by Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited, or Ranbaxy, pursuant to its settlement agreement with Merck which allows Ranbaxy to launch its generic version after September 1, 2009. Any inability on our part to compete with current or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We need to manage our growth and increased breadth of our activities effectively. We have expanded the scope of our business significantly over the last two years. We have added MERREM I.V. as a product that we promote, acquired and in-licensed several drug candidates, and been progressing multiple clinical stage drug candidates. We also have grown our employee base substantially, particularly in research and development and sales. We plan to continue adding products and drug candidates through internal development, in-licensing and acquisition over the next several years and to continue developing our existing drug candidates that demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety to advance in clinical trials. To manage the existing and planned future growth and the increasing breadth and complexity of our activities, we will need to continue building our organization and making significant additional investments in personnel, information management systems and resources. Our ability to develop and grow the commercialization of our products, achieve our research and development objectives, add and integrate new products, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration and acquisition agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to effectively manage and progress all of these activities, our ability to maximize the value of one or more of our products or drug candidates could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our long-term strategy is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical and sales personnel. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at Cubist, we have provided stock options and restricted stock units that vest over time. In the future, we expect to continue using stock options, restricted stock units or other equity incentives to attract and retain employees. The value to employees of these equity-based incentives, particularly stock options, is 37 Table of Contents significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we have limited control over and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. We have also provided retention letters to our executive officers and certain other key employees. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific, medical and sales teams have in the past and may in the future terminate their employment with us. The failure to attract and retain our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business or financial results. Our long-term strategy is dependent upon successfully discovering, obtaining, developing and commercializing drug candidates. We have made significant investments in research and development and have recently increased our research and development workforce. However, except for CB-182,804 and CB-183,315, for which we initiated Phase 1 clinical trials in early 2009, none of our internally developed product candidates have reached the clinical development stage. We cannot assure you that we will reach this stage for any additional internally-developed drug candidates or that there will be clinical benefits associated with CB-182,804, CB-183,315 or any other drug candidates that we do develop. CUBICIN and our other drug candidates that have progressed to Phase 2 clinical trials were the result of in-licensing or acquiring patents, product candidates and technologies from third parties. These types of activities represent a significant expense, as they generally require us to pay to other parties upfront payments, development and commercialization milestone payments and royalties on product sales. In addition, we may structure our in-licensing arrangements as cost and profit sharing arrangements, in which case we would share development and commercialization costs, as well as any resulting profits, with a third party. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional desirable drug candidates or marketed drug products on acceptable terms or at all. In fact, we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products from a variety of other companies with interest in the anti-infective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more experience than we have in pharmaceutical development and sales and significantly more financial resources than we have. Because of the rising intensity of the level of competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such candidates and products has grown dramatically in recent years, and they are often priced and sold at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. Such competition and higher prices are most pronounced for late-stage candidates and marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our business. If we need additional capital to fund our acquisition, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to a drug candidate or marketed product, we would need to seek financing by borrowing funds or through the capital markets. Given the current state of the financial and credit markets, it may be difficult for us to acquire the capital that we would need. If we are unable to discover or acquire additional promising candidates or to develop successfully the candidates we have, we will not be able to implement our business strategy. Even if we succeed in discovering or acquiring drug candidates, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing them or any of our current candidates to gain approval for use in humans, that they can be manufactured economically, that they can be successfully commercialized or that they will be widely accepted in the marketplace. Because of the long development timelines and the fact that most drug candidates that make it into clinical development are not ultimately approved for commercialization, none of the drug candidates that we are currently developing would generate revenues for many years, if at all. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future drug candidates to market or to acquire or obtain other rights to any additional marketed drug products, our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited and could have a material adverse effect on our long term business, operating results and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents We have undertaken and may in the future undertake strategic acquisitions, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. As noted above, one of the ways we intend to grow our pipeline and business is through acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of Calixa Therapeutics Inc., or Calixa. We have limited experience in acquiring businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of particular risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; and uncertainty about the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, in paying for acquisitions and/or funding the development and commercialization of drug products that we acquire through acquisitions, we may deplete our cash resources or need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness, and we may not be able to raise such funds on favorable or desirable terms or at all, especially if the credit and financial markets continue to be constrained. Furthermore, there is the risk that our technical and valuation assumptions and our models for an acquired product or business may turn out to be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to have overvalued an acquisition target or result in the accounting effect of the acquisition being different than what we had anticipated. We may also have to adjust certain aspects of the accounting for acquisitions, such as goodwill, in-process research and development, or IPR&D, other intangible assets and contingent consideration over time as events or circumstances occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring businesses with promising drug candidates if we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize such drug candidates, as happened with the Hepatitis C Virus compound that we acquired through our acquisition of Illumigen Biosciences, Inc. in December 2007. As a result, we cannot assure you that, following the acquisition of Calixa or any future acquisitions, we will achieve revenues that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. The FDA and other competent authorities worldwide may change their approval requirements or policies for antibiotics, or apply interpretations to its requirements or policies, in a manner that could delay or prevent commercialization of our antibiotic product candidates or approval of any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek in the U.S. and other countries. Regulatory requirements for the approval of antibiotics in the U.S. may change in a manner that requires us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials, which may delay or prevent commercialization of our antibiotic product candidates or approval of any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek. Historically, the FDA has not required placebo-controlled clinical trials for approval of antibiotics but instead has relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic treatment, and it must be shown that the product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment by a defined margin. In 2006, the FDA refused to accept approval studies of successfully completed non-inferiority studies as the basis of approval for certain types of antibiotics. In October 2007, the FDA issued draft guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies to support approval of antibiotics. Under this draft guidance, the FDA recommends that for some antibiotic indications, sponsor companies carefully consider study designs other than non-inferiority, such as placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo. The draft guidance does not articulate clear standards or policies for demonstrating the safety and efficacy of antibiotics generally and reserves until a later date the FDA's guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies in all therapeutic areas. The lack of clear guidance from the FDA creates uncertainties about the standards for the approval of antibiotics in the 39 Table of Contents U.S. In November 2008, the FDA's Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee, or AIDAC, considered non-inferiority margins for new antibiotics for cSSSIs. The AIDAC concluded that non-inferiority trials are acceptable for cSSSI indications and that a 10% non-inferiority margin may be acceptable if major abscess types of cSSSI infections are excluded and the antibiotic provides safety, cost, or antimicrobial benefits. The AIDAC discussed but did not reach consensus about whether the non-inferiority margin should be justified by the type of cSSSI infection or applied to cSSSI as a group. The position of the AIDAC may or may not be applied by FDA in its review of applications of regulatory filings. In addition, non-inferiority studies have come under scrutiny from Congress, in part because of a congressional investigation as to the safety of Ketek®, an antibiotic approved by the FDA on the basis of non-inferiority studies. The increased scrutiny by Congress and regulatory authorities may significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, as well as impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing requirements with respect to antibiotics. The factors described above could delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates that we are developing or may seek to develop, such as CB-182,804, CB-183,315, CXA-201, or the approval of any additional indications for CUBICIN in the U.S. This would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have collaborative and other similar types of relationships that expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate continuing to enter into, collaborative and other types of contractual arrangements, which we refer to as collaborations, with multiple third parties to discover, test, develop, manufacture and market drug candidates and drug products. For example, we have agreements with several pharmaceutical companies, including a Novartis subsidiary, AstraZeneca AB and a Merck subsidiary, to develop and commercialize CUBICIN outside the U.S., and we have collaborations with respect to MERREM I.V. and certain of our pipeline candidates, including CB-500,929 and ALN-RSV. Collaborations such as these are necessary for us to research, develop, and commercialize drug candidates. In order for existing and future collaborations to be successful, we need to able to work successfully with our collaborators or their successors. If not, these arrangements would likely be unsuccessful and/or terminate early. In addition, factors external to our collaborations, such as patent coverage, regulatory developments or market dynamics could impact the collaboration. For example, we and AstraZeneca recently amended our agreement with respect to the promotion of MERREM I.V. in the U.S. to shorten the term of the agreement due primarily to the expiration of the composition of matter patent coverage of MERREM I.V. in June 2010. Reliance on collaborations poses a number of risks including the following: •other than the rights we have by contract, the focus, direction, amount and timing of resources dedicated by our CUBICIN international distributors to their efforts to develop and commercialize CUBICIN is not under our control, which may result in less successful commercialization of CUBICIN in our partners' territories than if we had control over the CUBICIN franchise in these territories; •our CUBICIN international partners may not perform their contractual obligations, including appropriate and timely reporting on adverse events in their territories, as expected; •AstraZeneca may not provide the level of support that it is required to provide under our agreement with respect to MERREM I.V. or may not support our promotion of MERREM I.V. to the degree that we would like, leading us to receive lower than expected revenues from this collaboration; 40 Table of Contents •we may be dependent upon other collaborators to manufacture and supply drug product to us, as we are with AstraZeneca for MERREM I.V., Dyax for CB-500,929 and Alnylam for ALN-RSV02, in order to develop or commercialize the drug product that is the subject of the collaboration, and our collaborators may encounter unexpected issues or delays in manufacturing and/or supplying such drug product; •some drug candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own drug candidates or drug products, which may lead them to reduce their effort on the drug candidates or drug products on which we are collaborating with them; •the protection of proprietary rights, including patent rights, for the technology underlying the drug products we license may be under the control of our collaborators and therefore our ability to control the patent protection of the drug product may be limited; •in situations, such as with CB-500,929, where our collaborator retains rights to develop and commercialize the product, or with ALN-RSV02, where we and our collaborator share decision-making power with respect to development of the product, we and our collaborator may not agree on decisions that could affect the development, regulatory approval, manufacture or commercial viability of the product; •in situations, such as with ALN-RSV02, where we and our collaborator are sharing the costs of development, our collaborators may not have the funds to contribute to their share of the costs of the collaboration; •disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation, commercial terms, the level of efforts being utilized to develop or commercialize product candidates that are the subject of a particular collaboration, or the preferred course of development or commercialization strategy, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates or products that we are marketing, lead to additional responsibilities with respect to drug candidates or marketed products, or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would be time-consuming and expensive and could cause disruptions in the collaborative nature of these relationships, which could impede the success of our endeavors; •some of our collaborators might develop independently, or with others, drug products that compete with ours; and •our collaborators could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration. Collaborations with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish and successfully maintain such arrangements on terms favorable to us or to work successfully with our collaborators or third parties with whom we have similar arrangements will have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. The investment of our cash is subject to risks which could result in losses. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds, auction rate securities and money market instruments. These investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. These risks have been heightened in today's tightened and fluctuating credit and financial markets. Such risks, including any additional write-downs of our auction rate securities or the failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, additional impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investments in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect 41 Table of Contents on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, we have previously recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge on our $58.1 million par value auction rate securities, which are currently recorded at their estimated fair value of $25.9 million. We will continue to monitor the credit and financial markets, and if there is continued deterioration, the fair value of our auction rate securities could decline further, resulting in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses. We have been profitable for eleven consecutive quarters before considering the retrospective application, on January 1, 2009, of the provisions of accounting guidance for convertible debt with conversion and other options. Despite our recent profitability, we may incur future operating losses related to the development of our other drug candidates or investments in other product opportunities and/or a negative outcome in the ANDA litigation with Teva. If we fail to maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. We may require additional funds and we do not know if additional funds would be available to us at all, or on terms that we find acceptable, particularly given the strain in the financial and credit markets. We may be required to seek additional funds due to economic and strategic factors. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, develop our existing and any newly-acquired drug candidates, actively seek to acquire companies with marketed products or product candidates, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates, expand our research and development activities and infrastructure, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond our control. Other than our $90.0 million credit facility with RBS Citizens, we have no other committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when and if needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to our shareholders or us, particularly if the credit and financial markets continue to be constrained. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be on acceptable or affordable terms, particularly if the credit and financial markets continue to be constrained. Our annual debt service obligations on our outstanding convertible notes are approximately $6.8 million per year in interest payments. We may add additional lease lines to finance capital expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We may also be forced to obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain additional capital, if needed, we will not be able to execute our current business plan successfully. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our products or processes could result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and interference and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The types of situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings include the risks set forth elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •if third parties file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of our products prior to expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by us, we may need to defend our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement, like the Teva litigation described above; •we or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights; •we or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties' patents; •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; •if our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we or our collaborators may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention of such technology; and •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our brand names infringe their trademarks, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings. An adverse outcome in any litigation or other proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology that is at issue or to license the technology from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. For the reasons stated in the "Risk Factors" section above regarding the possibility that we may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect our proprietary rights, the uncertainty of the outcome of the Teva litigation, and developments in the Teva litigation that may be perceived to negatively impact our position in the litigation, may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in the Teva litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline and will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with the Teva litigation. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of similar litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. 43 Table of Contents Revenues generated by products we currently commercialize or may commercialize in the future depend on reimbursement from third-party payors. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal governments, including Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, and private insurance plans. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if these third-party payors do not sufficiently cover and reimburse the cost of CUBICIN, or related procedures or services, or any other future drug product we may market. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for CUBICIN or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, CUBICIN may be too costly for general use, and physicians may not prescribe it. In this manner, levels of reimbursement for drug products by government authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations, such as HMOs, are likely to have an effect on the successful commercialization of, and our ability to attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our drug products and drug candidates. In both the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, legislative and regulatory actions, including but not limited to the following, can reduce the revenues that we derive from CUBICIN: •The statutory requirement that Medicare may not make a higher payment for inpatient services that are necessitated by hospital acquired medical conditions, or HACs, arising after a patient is admitted to a hospital may affect the rate of reimbursement for CUBICIN. Although MRSA has not been designated as a HAC, it is covered by this statutory requirement in situations where MRSA triggers another condition that is itself a HAC. In addition, MRSA may be added as a HAC in the future. As a result of this policy, in certain circumstances, hospitals may receive less reimbursement for Medicare patients that obtain a HAC which may be treated with CUBICIN. •The Medicare payment rate to physicians and hospital outpatient departments for CUBICIN is set on a quarterly basis based upon the average sales price for previous quarters. Significant downward fluctuations in such reimbursement rate could negatively affect sales of CUBICIN. While hospital outpatient rates can change through regulatory or legislative action, the Medicare payment methodology for physicians can only change through legislation. •Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law and is required to be recomputed each quarter based on our report of current average manufacturer price, or AMP, and best price for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The terms of our participation in the program imposes a requirement for us to report revisions to AMP or best price, and such revisions could have the impact of increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. •The availability of federal funds to pay for CUBICIN under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we extend discounts under the Public Health Service, or PHS, 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The 340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries. •We also make our products available for purchase by authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, we are required to offer deeply discounted FSS contract pricing to four federal agencies for federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid program and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by those federal agencies and certain federal grantees. 44 Table of Contents In addition to these existing legislative and regulatory mandates, future legislation or regulatory actions altering these mandates or imposing new ones may have a significant effect on our business. In the U.S. and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. For example, there are a number of pending legislative proposals involving prescription drug benefits in various federal health care programs that could have a material impact on the pricing and sale of our products, including proposals that would increase the Medicaid drug rebate liability for manufacturers and expand the number of entities to which manufacturers must extend discounts under the 340B/PHS pricing program. Third-party payors, including the U.S. government, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for and the cost-effectiveness of medical products, which is sometimes referred to as comparative effectiveness research, and they are increasingly limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as possible legislative changes to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Furthermore, substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved health care products by third party payors. We will not know what the reimbursement rates will be for our future drug products, if any, until we are ready to market the product and we actually negotiate the rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficiently high reimbursement rates for our products, they may not be commercially viable or our future revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. Finally, outside the U.S., certain countries set prices in connection with the regulatory process. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborators. Such prices may negatively impact our revenues from sales by our collaborators in those countries. Our business and industry is highly regulated and scrutinized and our long-term strategy and success is dependent upon compliance with applicable regulations and maintaining our business integrity. Research and Development. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that usually takes many years. We cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any of our drug candidates will demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy necessary to obtain marketing approvals. In addition, drug candidates that experience success in pre-clinical testing and early-stage clinical trials will not necessarily experience the same success in late-stage clinical trials. Some of the drug candidates that we are developing are in the pre-clinical stage. In order for a drug candidate to move from this stage to human clinical trials, we must submit an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, to the FDA or a similar document to competent authorities outside the U.S. The FDA and other countries' authorities will allow us to begin clinical trials under an IND if we demonstrate in our submission that a potential drug candidate will not expose humans to unreasonable risks and that the compound has pharmacological activity that justifies clinical development. It takes significant time and expense to generate the data to support an IND. In many cases, companies spend the time and resources only to discover that the data are not sufficient to support an IND and therefore are unable to enter clinical trials. This has happened to us in the past and likely will again in the future. 45 Table of Contents Once a drug candidate enters human clinical trials, the trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the independent committees responsible for the ethical review of clinical studies (e.g. Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, and Ethical Committees, or ECs) associated with the centers where the studies are conducted. There may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay either or both the start and the finish of the clinical trials. Feedback from regulatory authorities or safety monitoring boards or results from earlier stage and/or concurrent clinical studies might require modifications or delays in later stage clinical trials or could cause a termination or suspension of drug development. These types of delays or suspensions can result in increased development costs and delays in marketing approvals. For example, in December 2009, we announced the early closing of enrollment of both Phase 2 trials of CB-500,929 based on a recommendation from the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, to close one of the trials, known as the CONSERV-2 trial, due to the observation of a statistically significant difference in mortality between the arms of the CONSERV-2 trial that the DSMB felt needed to be assessed before the trial could be resumed. Furthermore, there are a number of additional factors that may cause our clinical trials to be delayed or prematurely terminated, such as: •unforeseen safety issues or findings of an unacceptable safety profile; •findings of an unacceptable risk-benefit profile or findings of futility with respect to observing reasonable efficacy as a result of analyses conducted during the course of ongoing clinical trials or other types of adverse events that occur in clinical trials that are disproportionate to statistical expectations; this was the primary reason for the early close in enrollment of our CB-500,929 Phase 2 trials; •inadequate efficacy observed in the clinical trials; •the rate of patient enrollment, including limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials or inability to enroll patients; •our inability to manufacture, or obtain from a third party manufacturer, sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; •the impact of the results of other clinical trials on the drug candidates that we are developing, including by other parties who have rights to develop drug candidates being developed by us in other indications or other jurisdictions, such as clinical trials of CB-500,929 that may be conducted by Dyax or its other licensees, clinical trials of ALN-RSV01 that may be conducted by Alnylam or Alnylam's partner in Asia, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., and clinical trials of CXA-101 or CXA-201 that may be conducted by Astellas; •the delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites and other third party vendors who are supporting our clinical trials; •our inability to reach agreement on trial design and priorities with collaborators with whom we are co-developing a drug candidate, such as ALN-RSV02, which we are co-developing with Alnylam in North America; •the difficulties and complexity of testing our drug candidates in clinical trials with pediatric patients as subjects, particularly with respect to CUBICIN and in the development of the products that are the subject of our collaboration with Alnylam, one of which is focused on the treatment of RSV in the pediatric population; •the failure of third-party clinical research organizations and other third-party service providers and independent clinical investigators that we have engaged to manage and conduct the trials to perform their oversight of the trials or to meet expected deadlines; 46 Table of Contents •the failure of our clinical investigational sites, and related facilities and the records kept at such sites, and clinical trial data to be in compliance with the FDA's Good Clinical Practices, or EU legislation governing good clinical practice, including the failure to pass FDA, EMEA, or EU Member State inspections of clinical trials; •our inability to reach agreement with the FDA, the competent national authorities of EU Member States or ECs on a trial design that we are able to execute; •the FDA or the competent national authorities of EU Member States, ECs or a Data Safety Monitoring Committee for a trial placing a trial on "clinical hold," temporarily or permanently stopping a trial, or requesting modifications of a trial for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns; •difficulty in adequately following up with patients after treatment; and •changes in laws, regulation, or regulatory policy, or clinical practices. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed or cancelled, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines and we may incur increased development costs and delays in marketing approvals, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Regulatory Product Approvals. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our drug candidates in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. To date, we have not obtained government approval in the U.S. for any drug product other than CUBICIN. In territories around the world where CUBICIN is not already approved, our international collaborators have submitted or plan on submitting applications for approvals to market CUBICIN. However, we cannot be sure that any regulatory authority will approve these or any future submissions on a timely basis or at all. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming procedures. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of foreign regulators typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Generally, no product can receive FDA approval or approval from comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards or standards developed by regulatory agencies in countries other than the U.S. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the required safety and efficacy characteristics. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our drug candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those drug candidates. The results of our clinical testing of a drug candidate may cause us to suspend, terminate or redesign our clinical testing program for that drug candidate. We cannot be sure when we, independently or with our collaborators, might be in a position to submit additional drug candidates for regulatory review. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. In addition, data 47 Table of Contents obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval and could even affect the commercial success of a product that is already on the market based on earlier trials, such as CUBICIN. Moreover, recent events, including complications experienced by patients taking FDA-approved drugs, have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in new legislation by the U.S. Congress and increased caution by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in reviewing new drugs. In summary, we cannot be sure that regulatory approval will be granted for drug candidates that we submit for regulatory review. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. In addition, biotechnology stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA approval of a drug candidate or if the timing of FDA approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any foreign regulatory authority's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our drug candidates, our stock price could decline significantly. Moreover, even if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed as well as additional post-approval requirements. Even if our drug products are approved for marketing and commercialization, we will need to comply with post-approval clinical study commitments in order to maintain the approval of such products. For example, in connection with our U.S. marketing approvals for CUBICIN, we have made certain Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA, including for studies of renal-compromised patients, pediatric patients, and those with combination therapy in the treatment of S. aureus infective right-sided bacterial endocarditis. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not complete these studies and the FDA, as a result, requires us to change related sections of the marketing label for CUBICIN. In addition, adverse medical events that occur during clinical trials or during commercial marketing of CUBICIN could result in legal claims against us and the temporary or permanent withdrawal of CUBICIN from commercial marketing, which could seriously harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. In particular, our ongoing pediatric trial, which we are conducting as part of our Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA, exposes us to more uncertain and potentially greater risk because of the age of the patients. Commercialization. Our company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including good manufacturing practices, regulations, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. In addition, if there are any modifications to a drug product that we are developing or commercializing, further regulatory approval will be required. Other U.S. state and federal laws and regulations and similar provisions in other countries may also affect our ability to manufacture, market and ship our product and may be difficult or costly for us to comply with. These include state or federal U.S. legislation, or legislation in other countries, that in the future could require us or the third parties that we utilize to manufacture and supply our marketed products and product candidates to maintain an electronic pedigree or other similar tracking requirements on our marketed products or product candidates. If any changes to our product or the manufacturing process are required, we may have to seek approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies in order to comply with the new laws. Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval state or federal U.S. law, or similar laws of other countries, including laws that prohibit certain payments to healthcare professionals and/or require reports with respect to the payments and marketing efforts with respect to healthcare professionals, or any regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, 48 Table of Contents result in fines, increased compliance expense, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug product, us or our manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug product from the market. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Compliance/Fraud and Abuse. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulation, including but not limited to, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program designed to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. AstraZeneca has retained certain rights related to the commercialization of MERREM I.V., including pricing, distribution and contracting, and maintains a U.S. compliance program that is entirely independent of our compliance program. Any governmental or other actions brought against AstraZeneca with respect to the commercialization of MERREM I.V. could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully promote MERREM I.V. and could cause us to become subject to a similar action as the one brought against AstraZeneca. International Operations/Relationships. We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships outside the U.S., and CUBICIN is marketed internationally through collaborations. Consequently, we are and will continue to be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: •unexpected CUBICIN adverse events that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the U.S.; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased or unpredictable operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and •violations of laws by our licensees, distributors, manufacturers, clinical research organizations, and other third parties with whom we do business, including violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These and other risks associated with our international operations, including those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Environmental, Safety and Climate Control. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds, and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third party 49 Table of Contents manufacturers, may also become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant and the costs of complying with climate change laws could also be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations and the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine could adversely affect our operations. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are made, in part, through direct sales to our customers, which include hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. As a result of current global credit and financial market conditions, our customers may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations for invoiced product sales or may delay payments, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow. In addition, we rely upon third parties for certain aspects of our business, including collaboration partners, wholesale distributors for our products, contract clinical trial providers, research organizations and manufacturers, and third-party suppliers. Because of the recent tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a delay or disruption in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. The way that we account for our operational and business activities is based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results, and new accounting pronouncements or guidance may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among others, those related to revenue recognition, inventories, investments, impairment of long-lived assets including other intangible assets, goodwill, IPR&D, accrued clinical research costs, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and product rebate and return accruals. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based on our historical experience, our observance of trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and they form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. If actual results differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions or events occur which cause us to have to re-assess our assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results and the performance of our stock. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts, our financial statements and other public disclosure are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The pronouncements and interpretations of pronouncements by the FASB, the SEC and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to make changes in our accounting policies, including how we account for revenues and/or expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials 50 Table of Contents utilizing our products and drug candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The cost of any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Products liability litigation and other related proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including those factors described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •the investment community's view of the revenue, financial and business projections we provide to the public, and whether we succeed or fail in meeting or exceeding these projections; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •an adverse result, even if not final, in the Teva litigation; •additional third parties filing ANDAs with the FDA relating to our products and the results of any litigation that we file to defend and/or assert our patents against such third parties; •any liabilities in excess of amounts that have been accrued or reserved; •failure of third party reporters of sales data to accurately report our sales figures; •new legislation, laws or regulatory decisions that are adverse to us and/or our products; •the announcements of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; •rumors, whether based in fact or unfounded, of any such transactions that are publicized in the media or are otherwise disseminated to investors in our stock and expectations in the financial markets that we may or may not be the target of potential acquirers; •litigation, including stockholder or patent litigation; •our failure to adequately protect our confidential, electronically stored, transmitted and communicated information; and •volatility in the markets unrelated to our business and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the stock of biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This 51 Table of Contents type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would harm our business. If our officers, directors and certain stockholders choose to act together, they would be able to influence our management and operations and might act in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they collectively would have the ability to influence the election of all of our directors and to influence the outcome of some corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Several aspects of our corporate governance may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: •we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; •our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of common stock; •our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the entire board from being replaced in any single year; and •advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully respond to the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders may be costly and time-consuming, and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and •if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 52 Table of Contents 