Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by the economic downturn currently being experienced in the United States, as we are highly dependent on discretionary spending by our guests. We are not able to predict the length or severity of the downturn. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as increased or continuing high unemployment, significant increases in energy prices, perceived or actual deterioration in general economic conditions, the protracted disruption in the housing markets, the availability of credit, perceived or actual decline in disposable consumer income and wealth (including declines resulting from any increase in personal income tax rates) and changes in consumer confidence in the economy may continue to reduce customer demand for the leisure activities we offer and adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. 27 Table of Contents We have substantial debt and intend to incur significant additional debt through the Refinancing; leverage may impair our financial condition and restrict our operations. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2010, our total consolidated debt was $1.53 billion. Pursuant to the Estate Agreement, we are required to use our reasonable best efforts to obtain new debt financing satisfactory to us (“New Financing”) with sufficient borrowing capacity to enable us to retire our existing senior credit facilities and our senior unsecured notes and fund the Repurchase Transaction. If we are able to obtain the New Financing, we anticipate that by June 30, 2011 our total consolidated debt will increase to approximately $2.1 billion, consisting of a combination of new senior secured credit facilities and unsecured notes. Upon consummation of the Refinancing and the Repurchase Transaction, for accounting purposes, our total liabilities will exceed our total assets. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes permits us to incur substantial additional debt. In addition, our senior credit facilities permit us to borrow up to an additional $73.8 million as of December 31, 2010 (subject to the maintenance of required debt covenant ratios). The revolving credit facility requires commitment reductions of $12.0 million each quarter from December 31, 2010 through June 30, 2012, with the remaining balance of loans due August 10, 2012. Our term loan requires $94.2 million principal payments due quarterly from December 31, 2011 through June 30, 2012, with the remaining balance of $94.3 million due November 10, 2012. Our substantial debt and the additional debt we incur as a result of the Refinancing could have important consequences to our business, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for the payment of interest on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases and general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, which we expect to increase following the Refinancing, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. If we obtain New Financing, our debt service requirements will increase substantially due to the higher principal amount of debt that will be outstanding. To some extent, our ability to generate future cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, the ability to borrow funds under our existing senior credit facilities or replacement credit facilities in the future will depend on our satisfying the financial covenants in the agreement governing such facilities. We cannot assure that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. Our extended revolving loan commitments mature in August 2012 and our term loan matures in November 2012. We will need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity and, as noted above, we intend to consummate the Refinancing in the second quarter of 2011. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain New Financing satisfactory to us or to refinance any of our debt on favorable terms. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Covenant restrictions under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes and any New Financing may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreement governing our existing senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, borrow money, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and effect a consolidation, merger or disposal of all or substantially all of our assets. Although the covenants in our senior credit facilities and the indenture are subject to various exceptions, we cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. In addition, our long-term debt requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facilities and the indenture. If an event of default under our senior credit facilities occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, our senior credit facilities are secured by first priority security interests on substantially all of our real and personal property, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to pay all amounts declared due and payable in the event of a default, the lenders could foreclose on these assets. We expect that any New Financing that we obtain will contain generally similar covenants and provisions. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. The gaming industry is very competitive, and we face dynamic competitive pressures in each of our markets. Several of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We may choose or be required to take actions in response to competitors that may increase our marketing costs and other operating expenses. Our operating properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas or are adjacent to states that prohibit or restrict gaming operations. These restrictions and prohibitions provide substantial benefits to our business and our ability to attract and retain guests. The legalization or expanded legalization or authorization of gaming within or near a market area of one of our properties could result in a significant increase in competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments, as well as the increased acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity, could lead to intensified political pressure for the expansion of legalized gaming. In 2007, the Kansas legislature enacted a law that authorizes up to four state-owned and operated freestanding casinos and three racetrack slot machine parlors developed and managed by third parties. At that time, one casino and one racetrack location were authorized in Wyandotte County in the greater Kansas City market. The owner of the potential racetrack slot machine parlor license surrendered its racing license and closed the facility due to concerns about the tax rate that would apply to its gaming operations, which was substantially higher than the tax rate in Missouri or applicable to Kansas freestanding casinos. The future status of the racetrack license is uncertain; however, there have been discussions about reducing the tax rate in order to incentivize the installation of slot machines at the racetracks and reduce the state’s budget deficit. In February 2010, the Kansas Lottery Gaming Facility Review Board approved a proposal by a partnership that includes a major commercial casino operator to develop a large land-based casino and entertainment facility at the Kansas Speedway, approximately 24 miles from Ameristar Kansas City. Construction of the first phase of the project is underway and it is expected to open in the first half of 2012. This facility will provide significant additional competition for Ameristar Kansas City that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of that property. Our East Chicago property currently competes with seven other casino gaming facilities in the Chicagoland market in Indiana and Illinois and with one Native American casino in Michigan. One of our property’s principal competitors is located in Hammond, Indiana, which is closer to and has significantly better access for customers who live in Chicago, Illinois and the Chicago suburbs that are the primary feeder markets for Ameristar East Chicago. The Hammond facility opened a $485 million expansion in 2008 that has adversely affected our property’s business, particularly table games and poker, and we expect will continue to do so. In December 2008, the Illinois Gaming Board awarded the exclusive right to apply for the tenth and final Illinois casino license to a developer for a property in Des Plaines, Illinois, located approximately 40 miles from 29 Table of Contents Ameristar East Chicago. Construction is underway and that facility is expected to open in late 2011. From time to time, the Illinois General Assembly has also considered other forms of gaming expansion in the state. In December 2010, the Illinois Senate passed a measure that would have authorized one land-based casino in the City of Chicago, four new riverboat casinos in downstate Illinois, slot machines at the existing racetracks and at Chicago’s two major airports and an increase in the number of gaming positions at each of the existing Illinois casinos (which are currently limited to 1,200 positions). The measure would have also reduced the top gaming tax rate on adjusted gross receipts from 50% to 44%. The measure was not passed by the Illinois House before the legislative session ended; however, it is possible this or a similar measure will be introduced in the current legislative session. If Illinois materially expands gaming, particularly in downtown Chicago or the south Chicago suburbs, the additional competition could materially adversely affect the financial performance of Ameristar East Chicago. A state senator has again introduced a measure in the Indiana legislature that would allow one of the two adjacent riverboat casino licenses held by the same operator in Gary, Indiana, approximately five miles from Ameristar East Chicago, to be moved to a nearby land-based location. If the casino is allowed to relocate inland, Ameristar East Chicago would face significant additional competition that would adversely affect its financial performance. In December 2007, a competitor opened a new casino in downtown St. Louis, approximately 22 miles from Ameristar St. Charles, and in March 2010 the same competitor opened an additional casino facility in southeastern St. Louis County, approximately 30 miles from Ameristar St. Charles. The new facilities have resulted in significant additional competition for Ameristar St. Charles that has adversely impacted Ameristar St. Charles’ business. In addition, if legislation is enacted in Illinois to permit the operation of slot machines at racetracks, Ameristar St. Charles would face additional competition from the racetrack near East St. Louis, Illinois. The Missouri State Lottery authority is considering introducing video lottery terminals (“VLTs”) at the state’s existing lottery outlets in order to help make up a shortfall in the state budget. VLTs are very similar in appearance and performance to casino slot machines. If this occurs, the VLTs would represent additional competition for our St. Charles and Kansas City properties. Native American gaming facilities in some instances operate under regulatory and financial requirements that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide them with a competitive advantage and lead to increased competition in our markets. In December 2007, the National Indian Gaming Commission (the “NIGC”) approved the request of the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska to have a five-acre parcel owned by the tribe in Carter Lake, Iowa, located approximately five miles from Ameristar Council Bluffs, approved for the operation of gaming. In December 2008, in a lawsuit brought by the State of Nebraska and joined by the State of Iowa and the City of Council Bluffs, the federal district court reversed the NIGC’s decision. The U.S. Department of the Interior appealed the district court ruling, and in October 2010 the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the district court’s decision and ordered the court to remand the matter to the NIGC for further consideration. The Court of Appeals directed the NIGC to revisit the issue, taking into consideration, among other things, a 2003 agreement between the State of Iowa and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. That agreement stated that the five-acre parcel would be utilized for a health center and not for gaming purposes. If the tribe is allowed to conduct gaming at this location, the additional competition would adversely affect our Council Bluffs business. The entry into our current markets of additional competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if a competitor were to obtain a license to operate a gaming facility in a superior location. Furthermore, increases in the popularity of, and competition from, Internet and other account wagering and gaming services, which allow customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Our business may be adversely affected by legislation prohibiting tobacco smoking. Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking in public places has recently been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including several of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Effective January 1, 2008, a Colorado smoking ban was extended to include casino floors. We believe this ban has significantly negatively impacted business volumes in all Colorado gaming markets. In April 2008, voters in the 30 Table of Contents City of Kansas City approved a ballot measure, which was subsequently modified by the City Council, that prohibits smoking in most indoor public places within the City, including restaurants, but which contains an exemption for casino floors and 20% of all hotel rooms. Two of Ameristar Kansas City’s competitors are not subject to a smoking ban in any form, which we believe has had some negative impact on our business. On July 1, 2008, a statewide indoor smoking ban went into effect in the State of Iowa. The law includes an exemption for casino floors and 20% of all hotel rooms. A bill is pending in the Iowa General Assembly that would eliminate the casino floor exemption. Nevada has a statewide indoor smoking ban, with exemptions for the gaming areas of casinos and bars where prepared food is not served. In January 2011, a statewide indoor smoking ban was passed by the Indiana House, and the governor has stated he will sign the measure if it is passed by the full legislature. Similar bills have been introduced from time to time in the Missouri General Assembly, and some members of the St. Charles County Council have recently stated they favor a public referendum on a county-wide indoor smoking ban that would not exempt the casino floor of Ameristar St. Charles. If additional restrictions on smoking are enacted in jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly if such restrictions are applicable to casino floors, our business could be materially adversely affected. If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. Periods of economic downturn and budget deficits, such as are currently being experienced in most states, may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors (such as the elimination of the buy-in limit in Missouri that became effective in 2008), our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Currently, the governor of Iowa is proposing that the legislature increase the gaming tax rate paid by riverboat casinos on adjusted gross receipts from 22% to 36% and reduce the state’s business earnings taxes. If enacted, a gaming tax increase of this magnitude would materially adversely affect the results of operations of Ameristar Council Bluffs and the other casinos in the state. We are subject to the risk of rising interest rates. Our outstanding debt under our senior credit facilities bears interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had $890.0 million outstanding under our senior credit facilities. If we obtain New Financing as we contemplate, our variable interest rate debt may increase substantially. If short-term interest rates rise from current levels, our interest cost would increase, which would adversely affect our net income and available cash. Our business is subject to restrictions and limitations imposed by gaming regulatory authorities that could adversely affect us. The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The states of Missouri, Iowa, Indiana, Mississippi, Colorado and Nevada and the applicable local authorities require various licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals to be held by us and our subsidiaries. The Missouri Gaming Commission, the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission, the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission and the Nevada Gaming Commission may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or not renew a license or approval to own the stock of any of our Missouri, Iowa, Indiana, Mississippi, Colorado or Nevada subsidiaries, respectively, for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authority. Our gaming licenses in Missouri and Colorado must be renewed every two years, our gaming licenses in Iowa and Indiana must be renewed every year, and our gaming license in Mississippi must be renewed every three years. If we violate gaming laws or regulations, substantial fines could be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved, and we could be forced to forfeit portions of our assets. The suspension, revocation or non-renewal of any of our licenses or the levy on us of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our currently operating gaming activities. However, gaming licenses and related approvals are deemed to be privileges under the laws of all the jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot assure you that our existing licenses, permits and approvals will be maintained or extended. We also cannot assure you that any new licenses, permits and approvals that may be required in the future will be granted to us. Holders of our Common Stock may be subject to gaming regulatory requirements or could be forced to sell their shares. All of the jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities have regulations requiring owners of more than a specified percentage of our outstanding stock to notify gaming regulatory authorities, provide information or certifications to those authorities and, in some cases, apply for a finding of suitability or license. The threshold level of ownership for such requirements in some jurisdictions is as low as 5% of our outstanding Common Stock, although exceptions or reduced requirements may be applicable for timely submissions by holders who generally qualify as institutional investors as defined in that jurisdiction and own not more than 10% of our stock. The specific qualifications vary by jurisdiction, but the lack of intent to exercise control over the company or its operations, by itself, is not a sufficient basis for exception or reduced requirements in some jurisdictions. For more information, see “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation.” Upon consummation of the Repurchase Transaction, the percentage ownership of each existing stockholder will increase without any change in the number of shares owned by such holder. Therefore, owners of more than approximately 2.75% of our outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to the Repurchase Transaction who are not already subject to these requirements will be required to make regulatory submissions promptly after the consummation of the Repurchase Transaction, and owners of more than approximately 5.5% of our stock immediately prior to the transaction could face significantly increased regulatory burdens. Owners of sufficient percentages of our Common Stock who do not or cannot comply with these requirements may be compelled to dispose of their Common Stock quickly and at a time at which they do not desire to do so. Any such sales by a significant holder of Common Stock, and the regulatory disincentives to acquire significant ownership positions, could affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Adverse weather conditions or natural disasters in the areas in which we operate, or other conditions that restrict access to our properties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, heavy snowfall and other extreme conditions, as well as natural disasters, can deter our guests from traveling or make it difficult for them to visit our properties. If any of our properties were to experience prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if multiple properties were to simultaneously experience adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business may also be adversely affected by other events or conditions that restrict access to our properties, such as road closures. On December 28, 2009, the Indiana Department of Transportation announced that it was permanently closing the Cline Avenue bridge near Ameristar East Chicago. The bridge had been closed since November 13, 2009 due to safety concerns discovered during an inspection of the bridge. Closure of the bridge has made access to the property inconvenient for many of Ameristar East Chicago’s customers and has significantly impacted the property’s business levels and operating results, and we expect this to continue unless and until improved access is developed. As a result of the bridge closure, access to our property has significantly deteriorated relative to the access of our primary competitors. In Black Hawk, a project to widen a mile-long stretch of State Route 119 near Ameristar Black Hawk to four lanes began in late 2010 and is expected to last until mid-2012. Also, in the spring of 2011 a drainage pipe will be buried underneath the portion of Route 119 that runs through the center of Black Hawk, directly in front of our property. The details of that project have not yet been finalized. These projects are expected to create some inconvenience for guests of Ameristar Black Hawk and adversely affect its business levels while they are ongoing. 32 Table of Contents The Missouri Department of Transportation has announced it will be undertaking a major renovation of the westbound span of the Blanchette Bridge, which carries Interstate 70 over the Missouri River near Ameristar St. Charles. The project is expected to begin in early 2012 and last approximately one year. During the project, the westbound span of the bridge will be closed and westbound traffic will be diverted to the eastbound span, which will carry three lanes in each direction, compared to the current five lanes in each direction. The project will create inconvenience for guests of Ameristar St. Charles that we expect will materially adversely affect its business levels while it is ongoing. We have limited insurance coverage for earthquake damage at our properties. Several of our properties, particularly Ameristar St. Charles, are located near historically active earthquake faults. In the event one of our properties were to sustain significant damage from an earthquake, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have limited opportunities to develop new properties. The casino gaming industry has limited new development opportunities. Most jurisdictions in which casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. Although a number of jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations, such as pari-mutuel racetracks. Moreover, it is not clear whether the tax, land use planning and regulatory structures that may be applicable to any new gaming opportunity would make the development and operation of a casino financially acceptable. We expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities that do arise, and many of the companies competing for such opportunities will have greater resources and name recognition than we do. Therefore, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully expand our business through new development. The Estate of Craig H. Neilsen currently owns a majority of our Common Stock and may have interests that differ from those of the other holders of our Common Stock. Craig H. Neilsen, our founder and former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, died in November 2006. At the time of his death, Mr. Neilsen beneficially owned approximately 56% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result of his death, these shares passed by operation of law to Mr. Neilsen’s Estate. The co-executors of the Estate are Ray H. Neilsen, our Chairman of the Board, and Gordon R. Kanofsky, our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman. Craig H. Neilsen’s estate plan provides that 25,000,000 shares of our Common Stock owned by the Estate (or approximately 43% of our shares currently outstanding) will ultimately pass to The Craig H. Neilsen Foundation, a private foundation primarily focused on funding spinal cord injury research and treatment (the “Foundation”). Messrs. Neilsen and Kanofsky serve as the co-trustees of the Foundation, and they also serve on the Foundation’s five-person board of directors. In light of their control over a majority of our Common Stock, Messrs. Neilsen and Kanofsky jointly have the ability to elect our entire Board of Directors over time and, except as otherwise provided by law or our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, to approve or disapprove other matters that may be submitted to a vote of the stockholders. Some of the factors influencing the Estate’s investment decisions with respect to our Common Stock may not be relevant to other holders of our Common Stock. If the Repurchase Transaction is consummated, the Estate will own approximately 17% of our outstanding Common Stock. Due to its liquidity needs, in order to diversify its investments or for other reasons, the Estate or its beneficiaries, including the Foundation, may sell additional shares of our stock in the market or otherwise, which could adversely affect the market price of the stock. The continued payment of dividends on our stock is dependent on a number of factors and is not assured. Holders of our Common Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. The payment of future dividends will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements and other factors, including the higher debt leverage and debt service requirements we will have if we consummate the Refinancing. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that future dividends will be paid at levels comparable to our historical distributions, if at all. In addition, 33 Table of Contents our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes impose limitations on the amount of dividends we may pay, and we expect the terms of any New Financing we obtain will impose limitations on our ability to pay dividends determined by one or more of the amount of dividends, the satisfaction of certain financial covenants or other conditions. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our ability to successfully complete our construction and development projects as planned. General Construction Risks — Delays and Cost Overruns. Construction and expansion projects for our properties entail significant risks. These risks include: (1) shortages of materials (including slot machines or other gaming equipment); (2) shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; (3) unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; (4) weather interference, floods, hurricanes, fires or other casualty losses; (5) unanticipated cost increases; (6) delays or increased costs in obtaining required governmental permits and approvals; and (7) construction period disruption to existing operations. Our anticipated costs and construction periods for construction projects are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects, consultants and contractors. The cost of any construction project undertaken by us may vary significantly from initial expectations, and we may have a limited amount of capital resources to fund cost overruns on any project. If we cannot finance cost overruns on a timely basis, the completion of one or more projects may be delayed until adequate cash flows from operations or other financing is available. The completion date of any of our construction projects could also differ significantly from initial expectations for construction-related or other reasons. We cannot assure you that any project will be completed on time, if at all, or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns on our construction projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently engaged in litigation with the general contractor for our St. Charles hotel project, which was completed later and at a higher cost than originally announced. From time to time, we may employ “fast-track” design and construction methods in our construction and development projects. This involves the design of future stages of construction while earlier stages of construction are underway. Although we believe the use of fast-track design and construction methods may reduce the overall construction time, these methods may not always result in such reductions, often involve greater construction costs than otherwise would be incurred and may increase the risk of disputes with contractors, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Construction Dependent upon Available Financing and Cash Flows from Operations. The availability of funds under our senior credit facilities at any time are dependent upon, among other factors, the amount of our EBITDA, as defined in the senior credit facilities, during the preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters. Our future operating performance will be subject to financial, economic, business, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our future consolidated EBITDA and the resulting availability of operating cash flows or borrowing capacity will be sufficient to allow us to undertake or complete future construction projects. As a result of operating risks, including those described in this section, and other risks associated with a new venture, we cannot assure you that, once completed, any development project will increase our operating profits or operating cash flows. Our business may be materially impacted by an act of terrorism or by additional security requirements that may be imposed on us. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has stated that places where large numbers of people congregate, including hotels, are subject to a heightened risk of terrorism. An act of terrorism affecting one of our properties, whether or not covered by insurance, or otherwise affecting the gaming, travel or tourism industry in the United States, may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our business may become subject to increased security measures designed to prevent terrorist acts. 34 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by our ability to retain and attract key personnel. We depend on the continued performance of our entire senior management team. If we lose the services of any of our key executives or our senior property management personnel and cannot replace such persons in a timely manner, it could have an adverse effect on our business. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience strong competition in hiring and retaining qualified property and corporate management personnel, including competition from numerous Native American gaming facilities that are not subject to the same taxation regimes as we are and therefore may be willing and able to pay higher rates of compensation. From time to time, we have a number of vacancies in key corporate and property management positions. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified management personnel at our properties or at our corporate level, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As we recruit personnel, we expect successful candidates to exhibit a collaborative, communicative and collegial nature. We also employ a high degree of centralization in a generally highly decentralized industry. These factors create risk in attracting management personnel in a timely fashion, as well as hiring candidates we expect to be successful within our Company. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry or other technological conditions could impose additional costs on us. The majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our casinos. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to our guests. In recent years, the prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than the costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participating lease costs, it could hurt our profitability. We materially rely on a variety of hardware and software products to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. Technology in the gaming industry is developing rapidly, and we may need to invest substantial amounts to acquire the most current gaming and hotel technology and equipment in order to remain competitive in the markets in which we operate. Ensuring the successful implementation and maintenance of any new technology acquired is an additional risk. Any loss from service of our operating facilities for any reason could materially adversely affect us. Our operating facilities could be lost from service due to casualty, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, floods or other severe weather conditions. Our riverboat and barge facilities are especially exposed to these risks and the changes in water levels. The Ameristar Vicksburg site has experienced ongoing geologic instability that requires periodic maintenance and improvements. Although we have reinforced the cofferdam basin in which the vessel is drydocked on a concrete foundation, further reinforcements may be necessary. We are also monitoring the site and expect that further steps will be necessary to stabilize the site in order to permit operations to continue. A site failure would require Ameristar Vicksburg to limit or cease operations. The loss of an operating facility from service for any period of time likely would adversely affect our operating results and borrowing capacity under our senior credit facilities or any replacement facilities in an amount that we 35 Table of Contents are unable to reasonably accurately estimate. It could also result in the occurrence of an event of a default under our senior credit facilities or any replacement facilities. A change in control could result in the acceleration of our debt obligations. Certain changes in control of Ameristar could result in the acceleration of our senior credit facilities and the obligation to offer to repurchase our senior notes or any replacement credit facilities or notes that we obtain or issue in the Refinancing. We cannot assure that we would be able to repay or refinance any indebtedness that is accelerated as a result of a change in control, and this would likely materially adversely affect our financial condition. These acceleration provisions arising from a change in control contained in our senior credit facilities and senior notes should not be implicated in connection with the contemplated Repurchase Transaction as a result of our planned contemporaneous refinancing of such obligations. We are subject to non-gaming regulation. We are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses generally, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations. However, certain of our properties are located in industrial areas or were used for industrial purposes for many years. As a consequence, it is possible that historical or neighboring activities have affected one or more of our properties and that, as a result, environmental issues could arise in the future, the precise nature of which we cannot now predict. We do not have environmental liability insurance to cover most such events, and the environmental liability insurance coverage we maintain to cover certain events includes significant limitations and exclusions. In addition, if we discover any significant environmental contamination affecting any of our properties, we could face material remediation costs or additional development costs for future expansion activities. Regulations adopted by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Treasury Department require us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. U.S. Treasury Department regulations also require us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000 if we know, suspect or have reason to believe that the transaction involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements. Substantial penalties can be imposed against us if we fail to comply with these regulations. Our riverboats must comply with certain federal and state laws and regulations with respect to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. In addition, we are required to have third parties periodically inspect and certify all of our casino barges for stability and single compartment flooding integrity. Our casino barges also must meet local fire safety standards. We would incur additional costs if any of our gaming facilities were not in compliance with one or more of these regulations. We are also subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to zoning, construction, land use, employment, marketing and advertising and the sale of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The imposition of a substantial penalty or the loss of service of a gaming facility for a significant period of time would have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 