ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business, including those discussed below. Furthermore, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We refer you to our "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which identifies certain forward-looking statements contained in this report. We depend heavily on the continued commercial success of CUBICIN. Our current ability to maintain and grow revenues depends significantly on the commercial success of CUBICIN in the U.S. CUBICIN's continued acceptance by the medical community and the future 30 Table of Contents market demand and medical need for CUBICIN are critical factors in CUBICIN's continued success. Although we also generate revenues from our sales of DIFICID and ENTEREG, such revenues have been and are expected to be much lower than our CUBICIN revenues. Therefore, if we are unable to continue to maintain and grow revenues from sales of CUBICIN, our future operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. CUBICIN may not continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. CUBICIN may not continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers for its approved indications in the U.S., particularly as the market into which CUBICIN is sold is growing only modestly, if at all, and economic problems persist. These factors have resulted in increased efforts by hospitals and others to minimize expenditures by encouraging the purchase of lower-cost alternative therapies, including generic products like vancomycin, patients electing lower-cost alternative therapies due to increased out-of-pocket costs, patients choosing to have fewer elective surgeries and other procedures, and lower overall admissions to hospitals. The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold depends on a number of additional factors, including those set forth below and the other CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section: •the safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived; •the possibility that target organisms develop resistance to CUBICIN; •our ability to maintain prescribing information, also known as a label, that is substantially consistent with current prescribing information for CUBICIN; •the rate of growth or contraction, if any, of the overall market into which CUBICIN is sold, including the market for products to treat MRSA skin and bloodstream infections; •our ability to effectively promote CUBICIN to those physicians who treat patients for whom CUBICIN would be appropriate, particularly in light of increasing restrictions on our sales force's access to physicians; •our ability to maintain and enforce U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN, particularly in light of efforts by companies such as Strides, Hospira and Teva to obtain approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN; •our ability to maintain and grow market share and vial sales as the price of CUBICIN increases in a market that has shown modest growth at best and in light of the cost containment efforts of hospitals; •the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived, compared to alternative therapies with respect to cost, convenience, safety, efficacy and other factors; •the impact on physicians' perception and use of CUBICIN as a result of treatment guidelines that are published from time to time, including the treatment guidelines for MRSA infections published by the Infectious Diseases Society of America, or IDSA, in early 2011; •the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and the level and scope of rebates, discounts, fees and other payments that we are required to pay or provide under federal government programs in the U.S., such as Medicare, Medicaid and the 340B/PHS drug pricing program; and •future legislative and policy changes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold. Our ability to successfully sell DIFICID and ENTEREG depends on many of the same factors listed above that may impact our sales of CUBICIN. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to grow revenues and execute on our long-term strategy depends heavily on our ability to acquire and/or discover, develop, and obtain marketing approval for additional products or product candidates, such as tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam. In order for us to achieve our long-term business objectives, we will need to successfully discover, acquire and/or develop and commercialize additional products or product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate, ceftolozane/tazobactam and others. Although we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in research and development, including by increasing our research and development personnel, we have had only a limited number of our internally-discovered product candidates even reach the clinical development stage. Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure. Failure by us to successfully discover, acquire and/or develop, obtain marketing approval for and commercialize additional products and product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam, would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow revenues and our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional product candidates or marketed drug products on acceptable terms or at all. We have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of product candidates and marketed products from a variety of other companies with interest in the anti-infective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in pharmaceutical development than we have. Because of the intense competition for these types of product candidates and marketed products, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such candidates and products has grown dramatically in recent years and is often at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. This competition is most intense for late-stage candidates and marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our financial performance. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the continued development and commercialization of our products, product candidates and research technologies, including as a result of challenges from companies like Strides, Hospira and Teva who seek to sell generic versions of CUBICIN. Our commercial success depends in large part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for our products, product candidates and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third-party challenges, including with respect to generic challenges. For our products and product candidates where we cooperate with a partner or other third party to enforce and defend the proprietary rights, such as DIFICID, ENTEREG, tedizolid phosphate, ceftolozane/tazobactam, and bevenopran, our commercial success will depend in part on such partners or other third parties cooperating with us or doing the same on their own. We have limited control over the amount and timing that such partners, collaborators or other third parties will dedicate to these efforts. We cannot be sure that our patents and patent applications, including our own and those that we have rights to under licenses from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, the following: (i) the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions; (ii) the actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country; (iii) the laws of foreign countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection to our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors' ability to compete with us in such countries; (iv) intellectual property laws and regulations and legal standards relating to the validity, scope and enforcement of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing and changing, both in the U.S. and in other important markets outside the U.S.; 32 Table of Contents (v) third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us; and (vi) the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and, as a consequence, our and our partners' patent applications may result in patents with narrower coverage than we desire or have planned for. Although we continue to own rights to a number of patents covering CUBICIN, certain patent rights covering CUBICIN in the U.S. have expired, including the primary composition of matter patent covering daptomycin. We cannot be sure that any patents covering CUBICIN will not be contested or invalidated or that any patent applications will be granted. Of particular concern is that third parties may seek approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing applications with the FDA in which they claim that the patents protecting CUBICIN are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. For example, until our patent infringement litigations with Hospira and Strides are finally resolved, the uncertainty of the outcomes may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in any of these litigations, whether appealable or not, would likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in any of these litigations would likely have a material adverse effect on the continued commercialization of CUBICIN, our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Under our April 2011 settlement agreement with Teva to resolve patent infringement litigation with respect to CUBICIN, we granted Teva a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to sell a generic daptomycin for injection product in the U.S. beginning on the later of: (i) December 24, 2017, and (ii) if our daptomycin for injection product receives pediatric exclusivity, June 24, 2018. The license we granted to Teva would become effective prior to the later of these two dates if: (i) the patents that were the subject of the patent litigation with Teva are held invalid, unenforceable or not infringed with respect to a third party's generic version of daptomycin for injection, which could occur if Strides and/or Hospira is successful in our patent litigations with Strides or Hospira, as respectively applicable, (ii) a third party sells a generic version of daptomycin for injection under a license or other authorization from us, or (iii) there are no longer any unexpired patents listed in the Orange Book as applying to our NDA covering CUBICIN. Teva may also sell generic daptomycin supplied by us at an earlier date upon certain specified types of "at risk" launches of a generic daptomycin for injection product by a third party. If this license becomes effective, or the license or settlement agreement terminates earlier than we anticipate, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. In addition, the FTC or the DOJ could seek to challenge our settlement with Teva, or a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlement with Teva. While we believe our settlement is lawful, we may not prevail in any such challenges or litigation. We may incur significant costs in defending any such action, and our business and results of operations could be materially impacted if we fail to prevail against any such challenges. We rely on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN and our other products and product candidates, and any difficulties, delays or disruptions in the manufacturing process or supply of any of our products or product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is a highly complex process in which a variety of difficulties may arise from time to time including, but not limited to, product loss due to: material, equipment, vendor or operator errors; labor shortages; inability to obtain material, equipment or transportation; physical or electronic security breaches; natural disasters and many other factors. Problems with manufacturing processes could result in product defects or manufacturing failures, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped, or could impair our ability to expand into new markets or supply products in existing markets. We may not be able to resolve any such problems in a timely fashion or at all. 33 Table of Contents We rely on third party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to manufacture API and finished drug product for all of our products, including CUBICIN. Any difficulties, delays or disruptions in the manufacturing process at such facilities for any of our products could result in a number of adverse consequences for our business, including but not limited to: a loss of inventory; our inability to supply sufficient quantities of drug product to meet U.S. demand; our inability to satisfy our contractual obligations to supply our international CUBICIN and DIFICID partners; and the incurrence of substantial additional costs to remediate or identify alternatives sources of supply. Any of these consequences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and long-term business plans. We also rely on CMOs to manufacture clinical trial materials for our product candidates, and we will rely on CMOs to manufacture commercial supplies, if any such product candidates are ultimately approved for commercial sale. Our product candidates, including ceftolozane/tazobactam and tedizolid phosphate, will not be approved for marketing by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities unless the FDA or their foreign equivalents also approve the facilities used by our CMOs to produce our product candidates for commercialization. If our manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's or foreign regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, the FDA or their foreign counterparts will not approve their manufacturing facilities, which would result in significant delays in obtaining FDA or foreign marketing approvals for our product candidates. In order to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, we and our CMOs must be able to develop and execute on manufacturing processes, and reach agreement on contract terms, for each candidate that will: •be approved by the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities in the countries where such candidates are to be manufactured or sold; •provide sufficient quantities of API and drug product of such candidates to meet our clinical trial needs and ultimate market demand; and •provide such amounts at a cost that will allow us to make an adequate profit. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet these manufacturing process requirements for any of our current product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam, all of which have complex manufacturing processes, which make meeting these requirements even more challenging. If we are unable to develop manufacturing processes for our clinical product candidates that satisfy these requirements, we will not be able to supply sufficient quantities of test material to conduct our clinical trials in a timely or cost effective manner, and as a result, our development programs will be delayed, our financial performance will be adversely impacted and we will be unable to meet our long-term goals. We rely on certain sole source contract manufacturers of our products and product candidates, exposing us to certain risks that, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We contract with ACSD as our sole provider of our worldwide commercial supply of CUBICIN API. Although we hold a supply of safety stock of API at another warehouse/distribution center in addition to what is stored at ACSD, any natural or other disaster, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability or similar events at these facilities that causes a loss of this safety stock or manufacturing capacity would heighten the risk that we face. We contract with multiple CMOs, including Hospira Worldwide, Inc., or Hospira Worldwide, and Oso Biopharmaceuticals Manufacturing LLC, or Oso, to manufacture and supply to us finished CUBICIN drug product for our worldwide needs. Hospira, which has submitted filings to the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN, is an affiliate of Hospira Worldwide. For many of the ex-U.S. markets in which CUBICIN is sold, either Hospira Worldwide or Oso is the sole approved supplier of one or more of the vial sizes that are sold in such markets, which will make it difficult to 34 Table of Contents switch to another supplier for such markets in a timely manner if we experience problems with one of our existing CMOs. We are also sole sourced with respect to our commercial supply of fidaxomicin, the API in DIFICID, and our commercial supply of fidaxomicin finished drug product, including DIFICID. We maintain higher inventory levels to account for risk associated with having a single supplier of fidaxomicin API and drug product. In addition, if we do not order certain minimum quantities of fidaxomicin from our CMO because of insufficient demand, we could owe payments for failure to satisfy our minimum order obligations. ACSD, our sole supplier of CUBICIN API, is also expected to be a commercial supplier of drug substance and/or drug product for certain of our product candidates, including ceftolozane/tazobactam. As a result, we may have an even greater reliance on ACSD for supply of our products than we currently do, which could increase the potential adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and long-term business plans if there are any problems with ACSD's operations, business or solvency. In addition, we plan on receiving a supply of certain of the key components of ceftolozane/tazobactam from CMOs in countries outside of the U.S., who would be our sole suppliers of such key components at the time of commercial launch. Sourcing supply of these key components adds risks to our supply chain and business, including risks to any intellectual property or proprietary processes related to such components. The manufacture of our products and product candidates is highly exacting and complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Due to the significant U.S. and international regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify new suppliers, including, but not limited to, appropriate facility design to prevent cross-contamination and other controls, we could experience significant interruptions in supply if we needed to transfer the manufacture of any product or product candidate (including API and raw materials) to one or more other suppliers to address these risks or any other difficulties with our current suppliers. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to operate their manufacturing facilities in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable U.S., EU and equivalent foreign regulations, which could result in a suspension of our contract manufacturers' ability to manufacture our products and product candidates, the loss of our product inventory, an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products to meet U.S. or foreign demand, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our third-party contract manufacturing facilities are subject to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA, the competent authorities of the EU, EU Member States and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies through initial and periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. We have limited control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulatory requirements. We and our contract manufacturers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that these manufacturing facilities meet applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various U.S., EU Member States, or foreign regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the issuance of warning letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of our products from the marketplace, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and marketing authorizations, total or partial suspension of production, the loss of product inventory, suspension of the review of applications for marketing authorization or applications for variations to existing marketing authorizations, any future supplemental New Drug Applications, or sNDAs, or equivalent foreign filings, termination or hold on a clinical study, sanctions being imposed on us, including enforcement actions, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, license revocations, operating restrictions or criminal prosecution. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly, could result in the suspension of sales of our products, and could have a severe adverse impact on our profitability and the future prospects of our business. In 35 Table of Contents addition, if any U.S., EU Member State, or foreign regulatory agency inspects any of these manufacturing facilities and determines that they are not in compliance with cGMP regulations or we or our contract manufacturers otherwise determine that they are not in compliance with these regulations, we could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products to meet U.S. or foreign demand or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures, either of which could have an adverse impact on our product sales, results of operations, financial condition and our long-term business plans. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and will likely face additional competition in the future from third-party product candidates under development and from generic versions of CUBICIN. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, including larger and more experienced global development staffs and sales and marketing organizations and greater manufacturing capabilities. Our competitors may develop, acquire or license technologies and drug products that are safer, easier to administer, more effective, or less costly than our products or product candidates, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. Competition in the market for therapeutic products that address serious Gram-positive bacterial infections is intense. CUBICIN faces competition in the U.S. from commercially-available drugs such as: vancomycin, marketed generically by Abbott, Shionogi and others; Zyvox, marketed by Pfizer; Synercid, marketed by King, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer; Tygacil, marketed by Wyeth., also a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer; VIBATIV, marketed by Theravance; and Teflaro, marketed by Forest. In particular, vancomycin has been a widely used and well-known antibiotic for more than 50 years and is sold in a relatively inexpensive generic form. Vancomycin sales account for approximately 70% of sales, based on days of therapy, in this market. In addition, CUBICIN is expected to face competition in the U.S. from a generic version of CUBICIN to be marketed by Teva under the terms of our settlement agreement with Teva. CUBICIN may also face competition in the U.S. from a generic version of CUBICIN if Hospira's ANDA or NDA, Strides' ANDA or a third party's filing to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN, is ultimately approved or a generic version of CUBICIN otherwise comes to market. CUBICIN also may face competition in the future from several product candidates currently in clinical development as treatments for cSSSI (now referred to as ABSSSI). CUBICIN is also priced higher than some of its competitor products, which could inhibit the continued acceptance of CUBICIN or otherwise cause physicians to switch to new drug products or reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances. Any inability on our part to compete with current or subsequently-introduced drug products, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. With respect to DIFICID, we face competition in the U.S. from branded Vancocin Pulvules, generic vancomycin capsules, reconstituted I.V. vancomycin "slurry" for oral administration and metronidazole. In particular, we anticipate DIFICID will continue to face increasing competition in the form of generic versions of branded products. DIFICID faces competition in the U.S. from an inexpensive generic form of metronidazole and vancomycin capsules, and in the EU faces competition from generic oral vancomycin. Generic therapies typically are sold at lower prices than branded antibiotics and generally are preferred by managed care providers of health services. DIFICID may also face generic competition in the U.S. if a third party's filing to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of DIFICID is ultimately approved or a generic version of DIFICID otherwise comes to market. DIFICID may also face competition from FMT, an experimental CDAD treatment that is becoming increasingly used. 36 Table of Contents Although ENTEREG is currently the only FDA-approved product indicated for the acceleration of GI recovery following surgeries that include partial bowel resection with primary anastomosis, there are other products in various stages of clinical development for this condition that could compete with ENTEREG at some point in the future and ENTEREG may also face generic competition in the U.S. as described above for CUBICIN and DIFICID. We expect that if our product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam, are approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, they will likewise face substantial competition from branded and generic products. The commercial success of CUBICIN and DIFICID and, if approved, our product candidate tedizolid phosphate, in certain territories outside the U.S. is largely dependent on our third-party partners and other factors outside of our control. We do not market and sell CUBICIN directly outside of the U.S., but rely on third parties to do so. Our international partners may not be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets, which includes countries in Europe, Asia (including Japan), and Latin America. To date, European sales have grown more slowly than U.S. sales did in the same period after launch due primarily to lower MRSA rates in some European countries, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S., the commercialization strategy and mix of resources that our European partner, Novartis, has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. Even if our international partners are successful in commercializing CUBICIN, we only receive a portion of the revenues from ex-U.S. sales of CUBICIN. Pursuant to the terms of certain collaboration agreements entered into prior to our acquisition of Optimer, Optimer granted to third parties, including Astellas Pharma Europe, Astellas, Specialised Therapeutics and AstraZeneca UK, exclusive rights to develop and commercialize DIFICID in various territories outside the U.S. and Canada, including Europe, Japan, Australia and Latin America. Consequently, our ability to generate any revenues from DIFICID in territories outside the U.S. and Canada depends on our collaboration partners' ability to obtain marketing approvals for and successfully commercialize DIFICID in their respective territories. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaboration partners will dedicate to these efforts. In addition, even if our international partners are successful in commercializing DIFICID, we only receive a portion of the revenues from sales of DIFICID outside of the U.S. and Canada. Pursuant to the terms of a collaboration and license agreement entered into prior to our acquisition of Trius, Trius granted to Bayer exclusive rights to develop and commercialize tedizolid phosphate in various territories outside the U.S., Canada, Europe and North and South Korea, including Japan, China and substantially all other countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East. As a result, our ability to generate any revenues from tedizolid phosphate in Bayer's territories depends on Bayer's ability to obtain marketing approvals for and successfully commercialize tedizolid phosphate in its respective territories. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Bayer will dedicate to these efforts. In addition, even if Bayer is successful in obtaining marketing approvals and commercializing tedizolid phosphate, we only receive a portion of the revenues from sales of tedizolid phosphate in Bayer's territories. We need to manage our growth effectively, and the increased breadth and complexity of our business may expose us to additional risk. We have expanded the scope of our business significantly in recent years. In 2010, we had one product, CUBICIN, which we were selling in the U.S. and no product candidates in Phase 3 clinical development. We are now selling three products on our own, expanding our international operations, and have four product candidates in Phase 3 clinical development. We also have grown our employee 37 Table of Contents base substantially, particularly within our research and development and commercial organizations. We plan to continue adding products and product candidates through internal development, in-licensing and acquisition over the next several years and to continue developing our existing product candidates through clinical trials. Our ability to continue to successfully commercialize our existing products, achieve our research and development objectives, add and integrate new products and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration and acquisition agreements depends on our ability to effectively manage these increased demands on our organization and expand our organization and infrastructure. To manage the increasing breadth and complexity of our business, we will also need to continue making significant additional investments in personnel, infrastructure, information management systems and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage and progress some or all of these activities, our ability to maximize the value of one or more of our products or product candidates could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties, such as CROs to help us conduct our clinical trials, and if these third parties fail to fulfill their obligations to us or fail to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with applicable U.S., EU, and foreign regulations, including the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. As we advance our product candidates through development, the size and scope of the clinical trials we conduct increases significantly, including the number of patients and medical conditions being studied and the number of clinical sites and countries in which the trials are being conducted. We contract with third parties such as CROs, contract investigational drug labeling and distribution providers, and regional and central laboratories to assist with the conduct of our clinical trials. As a result, we have reduced control over many key operational aspects of our clinical trial process. Outsourcing this critical work to third parties also leaves us exposed to the risk that changes in their business or financial condition could cause them to no longer be able to support our business in a timely or satisfactory manner or at all, the impact of which could delay key projects and initiatives and therefore adversely impact the timing and achievement of our business goals. In addition, the FDA, the competent authorities in the EU Member States, and similar foreign regulatory authorities could determine that our clinical trials were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. For example, under the FDA's cGCP regulations we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of our clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA conducts periodic inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. Directive 2001/20/EC and the EU cGCP rules impose similar obligations and procedures with respect to the conduct of clinical trials in the EU. If the FDA, a competent authority of an EU Member State, or any similar foreign regulatory authority determines that we, our clinical research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP or other applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, the European Commission, the EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States or equivalent foreign regulatory authority may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates or additional approvals for our marketed products. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs under U.S. or EU or similar foreign regulations could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates or for new indications for our marketed products. This would, in turn, materially adversely impact our ability to increase revenues, our results of operations and financial condition, and ability to meet our long-term goals. 38 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and limit turnover. Our ability to be successful in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical, sales and other personnel. In order to attract and retain highly qualified and high performing employees, we provide competitive compensation packages. We also have provided retention letters to our executive officers and certain other key employees. However, despite our efforts to retain highly qualified and performing employees, key employees have in the past and may in the future choose to terminate their employment with us. Any failure to attract and retain our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business and financial results. Also, we market and sell CUBICIN and ENTEREG in the U.S. and DIFICID in the U.S. and Canada through our own sales force and marketing team. Significant turnover or changes in the experience level of our sales and marketing personnel, particularly our most senior sales and marketing personnel, could impact our ability to effectively sell and market CUBICIN and our other products. We have undertaken and may in the future undertake additional strategic acquisitions, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. One of the ways we have grown our pipeline and business is through acquisitions, such as our recent acquisitions of Trius and Optimer. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, in particular when more than one major acquisition occurs at a time, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel and assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities. In addition, third party lawsuits challenging these acquisitions are common, and we may incur significant legal costs in defending these suits that are not covered by insurance. We may also acquire companies in which we are uncertain about the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures, as in the case of Optimer, which had identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting for 2012, its most recently completed fiscal year. Integration of existing businesses may also include additional legal risks. For example, an SEC/DOJ investigation of Optimer with respect to an attempted potentially improper share grant, potentially improper payment to a research laboratory and certain matters that may be related thereto remains ongoing, and the outcomes are uncertain. In addition, because certain of Trius' revenues have been derived through federal grants and government contracts, we may be subject to routine audit and investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, and the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or the DCAA. Moreover, the integration costs of the companies we acquire may be higher than we anticipated. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because the price paid for acquiring businesses often exceeds the book value of the acquired company, the successful realization of value from an acquisition typically derives from capitalizing on cost savings realized by combining the acquirer and target company. If we are unable to realize such cost savings, we may not be able to justify the price paid for such an acquisition. There is also the risk that our valuation of an acquired product or business may turn out to be erroneous and thereby cause us to have overvalued an acquisition target, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result, we cannot assure you that, following our acquisitions of Adolor, Trius or Optimer or any future acquisitions, we will achieve revenues that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. 39 Table of Contents Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure. Product candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that takes many years. We cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any of our product candidates will demonstrate the safety, efficacy and benefit-to-risk profile necessary to obtain marketing approvals. In addition, product candidates that experience success in pre-clinical testing and early-stage clinical trials will not necessarily experience the same success in late-stage clinical trials, which are required for marketing approval. The FDA and other countries' regulatory authorities will allow us to begin clinical trials under an IND, or similar document in other countries only if we demonstrate in our submission that the potential product candidate will not expose humans to unreasonable risks and that the compound has pharmacological activity that justifies clinical development. It takes significant time and expense to generate the requisite data to support an IND or similar document. In many cases, companies spend the time and resources only to discover that the data are not sufficient to support an IND or similar document and therefore are unable to enter human clinical trials. In the past, we have had pre-clinical product candidates for which we were not able to generate adequate data to proceed with clinical trials, and this likely will happen again in the future. Even if we are successful in advancing a product candidate into the clinical development stage, before obtaining regulatory and marketing approvals, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. Human clinical trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the independent committees responsible for the ethical review of clinical studies. There may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay the start or completion of the clinical trials. In addition, clinical practices vary globally, and there is a lack of harmonization among the guidance provided by various regulatory bodies of different regions and countries with respect to the data that is required to receive marketing approval, which makes designing global trials increasingly complex. There are a number of additional factors that may cause our clinical trials to be delayed, prematurely terminated or deemed inadequate to support regulatory approval, such as: •the difficulties and complexity of testing our product candidates in clinical trials with pediatric patients as research subjects, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, for which we are pursuing a U.S. regulatory filing to gain an additional six months of exclusivity based on safety and efficacy in pediatric patients; •unforeseen safety issues (including those arising with respect to trials by third parties for compounds in a similar class as our product or product candidate), inadequate efficacy, or an unacceptable risk-benefit profile observed at any point during or after completion of the trials; •slower than expected rates of patient enrollment, which could be due to any number of factors, including failure of our third-party vendors, including our CROs, to effectively perform their obligations to us, a lack of patients who meet the enrollment criteria or competition from clinical trials in similar product classes or patient populations; •the risk of failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities to maintain compliance with the FDA's cGMP regulations or similar regulations in countries outside of the U.S., including the risk that these sites fail to pass inspections by the appropriate governmental authority, which could invalidate the data collected at that site or place the entire clinical trial at risk; •any inability to reach agreement or lengthy discussions with the FDA, equivalent regulatory authorities, or ethical review committees on trial design that we are able to execute; 40 Table of Contents •any refusal by the FDA to accept or approve an NDA for substantive review, which may result in additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing validation studies, and significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, which could happen, for example, in the case of our planned NDA for ceftolozane/tazobactam; and •changes in laws, regulations, regulatory policy or clinical practices, especially if they occur during ongoing clinical trials or shortly after completion of such trials. Any deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our development programs, including tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam, could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays, prevent us from obtaining marketing approval for any product candidate or abandon development of certain product candidates, any of which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. The process of obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to market and sell drug products in the U.S., EU, and in foreign countries is complex, time consuming, expensive and subject to a number of risks that could result in a failure to obtain approval for any of our product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate and ceftolozane/tazobactam. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our product candidates in the U.S., the EU, the EU Member States and in foreign jurisdictions. The FDA, the European Commission, the EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States and other comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production, marketing authorization and commercial introduction of drug products. These requirements include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming procedures. In addition, regulation is not static, and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, the European Commission, the EMA, and the competent authorities of the EU Member States, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent or different requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned and ongoing drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. For example, an FDA Advisory Committee is expected to convene in 2014 to provide additional guidance on requirements for cardiovascular studies for mu-opioid antagonists. Because bevenopran is a mu-opioid antagonist, the outcome of this Advisory Committee could have a significant impact on the design, timing and cost of our bevenopran program. As a result, we have decided to stop our bevenopran Phase 3 efficacy trials pending the outcome of this Advisory Committee. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA, the relevant EU, and other foreign regulators typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. Differing regulatory approval requirements in different countries make it more difficult for us to conduct unified global trials, which can lead to increased development costs and marketing delays or non-viability of our clinical trials. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In addition, the Phase 3 clinical trials of many product candidates requires health economics and outcomes research, or HEOR, endpoints or protocols, which may result in trials being prolonged so that the requisite HEOR data can be gathered. In addition, if the HEOR data fails to provide convincing evidence of patient benefit over existing therapies, it could impact the product's reimbursement or success in the marketplace. Generally, no product can receive FDA approval, marketing authorization from the European Commission or the competent authorities of the EU Member States, or approval from comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries unless data generated in human clinical trials demonstrates both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with such authority's standards. The 41 Table of Contents large majority of product candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the required safety and efficacy characteristics necessary for marketing approval. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those product candidates. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that additional trials be conducted, any of which may not be clinically feasible or financially practicable, that the conduct of trials be suspended, or that a program be terminated. Clinical and other data are also often subject to varying interpretations, so even if we believe that the data from clinical trials that we conduct for a product candidate produced positive results, the FDA, the European Commission, the EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States, or other regulatory authorities may determine that the data we submit with any marketing approval application, including our planned NDA for ceftolozane/tazobactam and our recently submitted NDA for tedizolid phosphate, is not adequate for approval. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for additional product candidates. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of a product candidate or if the timing of FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any foreign regulatory authority's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our product candidates, our stock price could decline significantly. Even if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the marketing authorization may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed and involve obtaining additional post-approval requirements. The commercialization of a drug product is impacted by the design and results of the trials that we or others conducted for the drug because such design and results determine what will be included on the drug label approved by regulatory authorities, and the label governs how we are allowed to promote the drug. The FDA or an equivalent authority in the EU or of another country, may determine that measures to control potential risks, such as a REMS or post-marketing obligations, are necessary to ensure that the benefits of a new product continue to outweigh its risks once on the market. If required, a REMS or post-marketing obligation may include various elements, such as conducting post-marketing safety or efficacy studies, publication of a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug's risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug or other measures deemed necessary to assure the safe use of the drug, any of which would make it more difficult to market the product, especially if competitor products are not subject to a similar REMS or post-marketing obligations. For example, ENTEREG was approved with a boxed warning on its label and subject to a REMS that imposes restrictions and requirements on the distribution of ENTEREG, which make it more difficult to market and sell. The REMS is subject to modification by the FDA at any time, and it is possible that the FDA could require changes to the REMS or other restrictions that would make it even more difficult, costly and time-consuming to market and sell ENTEREG. Even if our drug products are approved for marketing and commercialization, we will need to satisfy post-approval clinical study commitments and/or requirements in order to maintain certain aspects of the approval of such products. For example, in connection with our U.S. marketing approvals for CUBICIN and DIFICID, we have made certain Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA. In addition, we are required to conduct certain pediatric studies in connection with our U.S. marketing approval for ENTEREG. If we do not complete these studies or do not complete them within the time limits imposed by the FDA, the FDA could impose monetary fines or other sanctions on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, in connection with the approval of DIFICID in the U.S., the FDA required a microbiological surveillance program to identify the potential for decreased susceptibility of C. difficile to DIFICID, as well as two post-marketing studies in pediatric 42 Table of Contents patients and a randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of DIFICID in the treatment of patients with multiple CDAD recurrences. Depending on the outcome of these DIFICID studies, we may be unable to expand the indications for DIFICID, or we may be required to include specific warnings or limitations on dosing this product, which could negatively impact our sales of DIFICID. In addition, certain of these DIFICID studies utilize a dosing regimen that differs from the approved dosing regimen for DIFICID, which could result in safety issues that also negatively impact DIFICID sales and/or our product labeling. We have collaborative and other similar types of relationships with third parties that expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate that we will continue to enter into, collaborative and other types of contractual arrangements, which we refer to as collaborations, with third parties to discover, test, develop, manufacture, market and promote product candidates and drug products. For example, we have collaborative agreements with several pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize CUBICIN, DIFICID and tedizolid phosphate outside the U.S. and from time-to-time enter into collaborations with respect to pre-clinical programs. In order for existing and future collaborations to be successful, we need to be able to work effectively with our collaborators. Reliance on collaborations poses a number of risks to our business, including the following: •our collaborators may not perform their contractual obligations, including complying with the required level of development or commercialization efforts and appropriate and timely reporting on adverse events in their territories, as expected; •we may be dependent upon other collaborators to manufacture and supply API and drug product in order to develop and/or commercialize the drug product that is the subject of the collaboration, and our collaborators may encounter unexpected issues or delays in manufacturing and/or supplying such drug product; •in situations where we and our collaborator share decision-making power with respect to development of the product, we and our collaborator may not agree on decisions that could adversely affect the development, regulatory approval, manufacture or commercial viability of the product or result in litigation or arbitration; •in situations where we and our collaborator are sharing the costs of development, our collaborators may not have the funds to contribute their share of the collaboration costs; •we may fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to our partners, which could subject us to claims for damages and other losses or rights to terminate the agreement; •some product candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own product candidates or drug products, which may lead them to reduce their effort on the product candidates or drug products on which we are collaborating with them; •the protection of proprietary rights, including patent rights, for the technology underlying the drug products we license may be under the control of our collaborators and therefore our ability to control the patent protection of the drug product may be limited; and •our collaborators could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could cause them to de-prioritize their efforts on our collaboration. Collaborations with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish and successfully maintain such arrangements on terms favorable to us or to work 43 Table of Contents successfully with our collaborators could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our investments are subject to risks which could result in losses. We invest our cash in money market instruments, bank deposits, corporate and municipal notes, U.S. Treasury securities and federal agency securities. All of these investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. These risks have been heightened in today's tightened and fluctuating credit and financial markets. Such risks, including the risk of failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses or a complete loss of our investments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may require additional funds to execute on our long-term business strategy, and such funds may not be available to us on terms that we find acceptable or at all, particularly if the financial and credit markets are constrained at the time we require funding. Although we held $578.6 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2013 and have a revolving credit facility for up to $150.0 million with the option to increase the credit facility by up to an additional $150.0 million, we may be required to seek additional funds in the future to execute on our long-term business strategy. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, DIFICID and ENTEREG, develop our product candidates, seek to acquire companies, products and product candidates, expand our research and development activities and manufacturing and other infrastructure, including our international operations, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of circumstances unforeseen or beyond our control. In addition, we hold approximately $1.0 billion in convertible debt, of which $450.0 million becomes due in September 2020, $350.0 million becomes due in September 2018, and $228.8 million becomes due in November 2017. If holders of the notes do not convert and hold to maturity, we may need to raise additional capital in order to pay our debts as they become due. We may seek any additional needed funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders could result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors or lenders may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional debt securities in the future, our existing debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate certain currently planned activities or curtail operations. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources when needed or, if available, will be on acceptable terms, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. If we fail to obtain additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to execute our current long-term business plans successfully. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate (sometimes referred to as "book tax"). These factors include, but are not limited to: interpretations of existing tax laws; the accounting for stock-based compensation; the accounting for business combinations, including accounting for contingent consideration; changes in tax laws and rates; the tax impact of existing or future health care reform 44 Table of Contents legislation; future levels of research and development spending; changes in accounting standards; changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate; the outcome of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other jurisdictions; the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits; and realization of deferred tax assets and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our provision for income tax resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations, including our net income. The effect on our results of operations may impact, or be perceived to impact, our financial condition and may therefore cause our stock price to decline. Third-party patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings brought against us relating to our products, product candidates, processes or other technologies could result in substantial liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts for such products, product candidates, processes or other technologies. An adverse outcome in any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to redesign or cease using and stop our development and commercialization efforts for the respective product, product candidate, process or other technology that is at issue or to obtain licenses or other rights from third parties. We may not be able to successfully redesign the product, product candidate, process or other technology to avoid infringement or obtain any such required licenses or rights on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of similar litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace and our stock price. The U.S. federal budget sequestration process may have a significant impact on our business. On August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering mandatory reductions in federal spending by as much as $1.1 trillion from 2013 through 2021, referred to as sequestration. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 provides billions in sequester relief over two years, but also extends the 2% reduction in Medicare payments, discussed below, for two years, until 2023. Sequestration-related spending reductions may have a significant adverse impact on our business. Sequestration spending reductions may adversely affect the FDA. While user fees can be used in the review of certain regulatory filings including NDAs, it is possible that sequestration spending reductions will result in additional backlogs in the approval process that could adversely affect the timing of FDA review of our regulatory filings for our products and product candidates, including tedizolid phosphate, for which we recently submitted an NDA to the FDA, and our planned NDA for ceftolozane/tazobactam. Sequestration also includes a 2% reduction in Medicare payments, which could also have a significant negative impact on our business. These reductions impact payments to hospitals, physicians, and Medicare managed care and prescription drug plans, under Medicare Parts A, B and D, and the Medicare Advantage program. The significant magnitude of the sequestration payment reductions places additional financial pressures on Medicare providers, including hospitals with high inpatient Medicare volume, which could force these providers to take new measures to address the shortfall in previously-expected reimbursements. It is possible that these measures could result in 45 Table of Contents heightened scrutiny and/or reduced purchasing of branded pharmaceuticals, such as CUBICIN, DIFICID, ENTEREG, and any future drug product we may market. Our revenues depend on the availability in the U.S. of adequate pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors for our current and future drug products, if any. In the U.S., sales of CUBICIN, DIFICID, ENTEREG, and any future drug product we may market are dependent, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers and private insurance plans. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if these third-party payors do not sufficiently cover and reimburse the cost of our products and related procedures or services. If these entities do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for CUBICIN, DIFICID, ENTEREG, or any future drug product we may market, these products may be too costly for general use, and physicians may prescribe them less frequently. The Medicare program and certain government pricing programs, including the Medicaid drug rebate program, the 340B/PHS drug pricing program and the VHC Act pricing program, impact the revenues that we derive from CUBICIN, DIFICID and ENTEREG. Any future legislation or regulatory actions altering these programs or imposing new ones could have a significant adverse effect on our business. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory actions and proposals to control and reduce health care costs. These measures may, among other things: negatively impact the level of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products; require higher levels of cost-sharing by beneficiaries; change the discounts required to be provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers to government payors and/or providers; extend government discounts to additional government programs and/or providers; or reduce the level of reimbursement for health care services and other non-drug items. Any such measures could indirectly impact demand for pharmaceutical products because they can cause payors and providers to apply heightened scrutiny and/or austerity actions to their entire operations, including pharmacy budgets. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., as well as the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, and the concurrent growth of organizations such as MCOs, accountable care organizations and integrated delivery networks, may result in increased pricing pressures for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the implementation of health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed or acquired by us. In addition, third-party payors, in an effort to control costs, are increasingly making patients responsible for a higher percentage of the total cost of drugs in the outpatient setting. This can lower the demand for our products if the increased patient cost sharing obligations are more than they can afford. Individual states' responses to ongoing financial pressures could also result in measures designed to limit reimbursement, restrict access, or impose broader or deeper discounts on branded pharmaceutical products utilized for Medicaid patients, including CUBICIN, DIFICID, ENTEREG, or any future drug product we may market. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Our revenues also depend on the availability outside the U.S. of adequate pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors for our current and future drug products, if any. Outside the U.S., certain countries, including a number of EU Member States, set prices and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, or medicinal products as they are commonly referred to in the EU, with limited participation from the marketing authorization holders. We cannot be sure that such prices and reimbursement will be acceptable to us or our collaborators. If the regulatory authorities in these foreign jurisdictions set prices or reimbursement that are not commercially 46 Table of Contents attractive for us or our collaborators, our revenues from sales by us or our collaborators, and the potential profitability of our drug products, in those countries would be negatively affected. An increasing number of countries are taking initiatives to attempt to reduce large budget deficits by focusing cost-cutting efforts on pharmaceuticals for their state-run health care systems. These international price control efforts have impacted all regions of the world, but have been most drastic in the EU. Reimbursement for medicinal products in the EU Member States is governed by complex mechanisms established on a national level in each country. These mechanisms vary widely among the EU Member States and are constantly evolving, reflecting the efforts of the EU Member States to reduce public spending on healthcare. The EU Member States have broad discretion to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and reimbursement levels for medicinal products. An EU Member State may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for medicinal products, or alternatively adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company marketing the medicinal product, including volume-based arrangements. Further, an increasing number of EU Member States and other foreign countries use prices for medicinal products established in other countries as "reference prices" to help determine the price of the product in their own territory. Consequently, a downward trend in prices of medicinal products in some countries could contribute to similar downward trends elsewhere. A Health Technology Assessment, or HTA, of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in a number of EU Member States, including France, Germany, Italy and the UK. HTA is the procedure according to which the competent authorities in a Member State assesses the public health, therapeutic, economic and societal impact resulting from the use of a drug product within the national healthcare system of the Member State. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of a medicinal product and compares these elements with other marketed treatment options. The outcome of an HTA will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to a medicinal product by the competent authorities of individual EU Member States. A negative HTA of any of our medicinal products by a leading and recognized HTA body could not only undermine our ability to obtain reimbursement for our medicinal product in the EU Member State in which such negative assessment was issued, but also in other EU Member States and elsewhere. For example, EU Member States that have not yet developed HTA mechanisms rely to some extent on the HTA performed in countries with a developed HTA framework when adopting decisions concerning the pricing and reimbursement of a specific medicinal product. Moreover, as part of the HTA process or in order to obtain reimbursement of our medicinal products in some countries, including some EU Member States, we may be required to conduct clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. There can be no assurance that our medicinal products will obtain favorable reimbursement status in any country. If our medicinal products fail to be reimbursed in any of the EU Member States or other foreign countries for these and other reasons, our future revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. We are subject to ongoing U.S. and foreign regulatory obligations and oversight of many critical aspects of our business, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences, including the potential suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We and our commercial partners are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review in the U.S., the EU, and in foreign jurisdictions, pertaining to the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping related to our products. Problems 47 Table of Contents may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with respect to our products or third-party manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products, or even the withdrawal of our products from the market. Additionally, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off-label uses or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Such events could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products. We also may undertake voluntarily to recall products or temporarily shut down production based on safety and quality monitoring and testing data. For example, in August 2013 we announced a voluntary recall of four lots of CUBICIN following an FDA inspection of our facilities from which we received and responded to certain observations contained in a Form 483 issued by the FDA. Any such sanctions could result in a decrease in product sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us or our third-party manufacturers. We or our partners may also be subject to additional sanctions, such as: •warning letters; •civil or criminal penalties; •consent decrees; •variation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •temporary or permanent closing of our facilities or those of our third-party manufacturers; •requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy or other issues involving our products; •changes to the package insert for our products; •implementation of risk mitigation programs; •restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of our products; or •product recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications or new products. Any of the above issues or sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our business and cause us to incur significant costs, including costs to replace products, lost revenue, damage to customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and costs of any possible settlements or judgments related thereto and potentially cause similar losses with respect to other products. Such challenges could also divert the attention of our management and employees from product development efforts. If we deliver products with defects, or if there is a perception that our products or the processes related thereto contain errors or defects, we could incur additional recall and product liability costs, and our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all of our products, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. Such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 48 Table of Contents If we or our commercial partners market or distribute our products in a manner that violates U.S., EU, or other foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the FCPA and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we commercialize and intend to commercialize our products, including CUBICIN and DIFICID, either directly or through our commercial partners. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our third-party contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. Moreover, our commercial partners for CUBICIN and DIFICID in other countries have developed pricing, distribution and contracting procedures that are independent of our compliance program and over which we have limited control. Our partners may have inadequate compliance programs or may fail to respect the laws and guidance of the territories in which they are promoting the product. Compliance violations by our distribution partners could have a negative effect on the revenues that we receive from sales of CUBICIN in these countries. Adolor and/or Glaxo commercialized ENTEREG from 2008 until our acquisition of Adolor in December 2011, under each company's own compliance program, which, prior to our acquisition of Adolor, we had no control over. Likewise, Optimer commercialized DIFICID from 2011 until our acquisition of Optimer in October 2013, under Optimer's own compliance program, which, prior to our acquisition of Optimer, we had no control over. If we, our representatives or our partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or our partners, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or our partners market and sell our products, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several U.S. states have also enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct, restricting payments or transfers of value that pharmaceutical companies may give to prescribers and other health care providers, and/or requiring such companies to file public reports on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities. In addition, as part of health care reform, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and related regulations. Beginning in 2014, manufacturers of drugs will be required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are not always clear. In the EU, the advertising and promotion of medicinal products are also subject to comparable laws governing promotion, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. The applicable laws at the EU level and in the individual EU Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of these rules could be penalized by administrative measures, fines, and imprisonment. Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians' codes of professional conduct in the individual EU Member States. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is also governed by the national anti-bribery laws of the EU Member States. One example is the UK Bribery Act 2010, which could have 49 Table of Contents implications for our interactions with physicians both in and outside the UK. Violation of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment. Payments made to physicians in certain EU Member States must be publicly disclosed and agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician's employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual EU Member States. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, harm or prevent sales of our products, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of ongoing investigations by U.S. authorities related to certain events occurring at Optimer prior to our acquisition of Optimer, it is possible that we and certain of Optimer's former employees and directors or certain of our employees may be named as defendants in future civil or criminal enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial penalties and costs, adversely impact our reputation and divert management's attention and resources. Prior to our acquisition of Optimer, Optimer became aware of an attempted share grant by Optimer and certain related matters in 2011, including a potentially improper payment to a research laboratory involving an individual associated with the share grant, that may have violated certain applicable laws, including the FCPA. Optimer had engaged external counsel to assist it in an internal investigation to review these matters. In April 2012, Optimer self-reported the results of its preliminary findings to the SEC and the U.S. DOJ, and removed the Chairman of its Board of Directors. In February 2013, the independent members of Optimer's Board of Directors determined that additional remedial action should be taken in light of prior compliance, record keeping and conflict-of-interest issues surrounding the potentially improper payment to the research laboratory and certain related matters. On February 26, 2013, Optimer's then-President and Chief Executive Officer and its then-General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer resigned at the request of the independent members of the Board of Directors. We are continuing to cooperate with the investigations by the relevant U.S. authorities in their review of these matters and Optimer has already taken remedial steps in response to its internal investigation. Nonetheless, these events potentially could result in lawsuits being filed against us or Optimer and certain of Optimer's former employees and directors or certain of our employees. Such persons could also be the subject of criminal or civil enforcement proceedings, and we may be required to indemnify them for any costs or losses they incur in connection with such proceedings. In the event any such lawsuit is filed or enforcement proceeding is initiated, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending it. Also, our insurance coverage may be insufficient or may not cover certain intentional or other actions, and we may have to pay penalties or damage awards or otherwise enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. Any payments or settlement arrangements could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if any claims against us are not successful, any related or collateral litigation or enforcement proceedings, as well as the costs of investigation, could result in substantial costs and significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any such lawsuit, investigation or proceeding could result in collateral consequences for our business including, among 50 Table of Contents other things, making it more difficult to finance our operations, obtain certain types of insurance (including directors' and officers' liability insurance), enter into collaboration agreements and attract and retain qualified executive officers, other employees and directors. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business, operating results or financial condition may be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing and contracting programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid rebate program has and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes to the definition of AMP and the Medicaid rebate amount under the Affordable Care Act and CMS's issuance of final regulations implementing those changes also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results of operations. Because we participate in the Medicaid rebate program, we are required to report ASP information to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid for under Part B of the Medicare program, including CUBICIN. Statutory or regulatory changes or CMS binding guidance could affect the ASP calculations for our products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs, involve complex calculations and often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current AMP and Best Price for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Any such revisions could have the impact of increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid rebate program. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B drug discount program. In addition to retroactive rebate liability and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP, ASP, or Best Price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP, ASP, and Best Price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. 51 Table of Contents We are required to calculate and report certain pricing data to the U.S. federal government in connection with federal drug pricing programs. Compliance with these federal drug pricing programs is a pre-condition to: (i) the availability of federal funds to pay for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B; and (ii) procurement of our products by the VA, and by covered entities under the 340B/PHS program. The pricing data reported are used as the basis for establishing FSS and 340B/PHS program contract pricing and payment and rebate rates under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs, respectively. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws for submitting inaccurate and/or incomplete pricing information to the government, which has resulted in overcharges or underpayments under these programs. The rules governing the calculation of certain reported prices are highly complex. Although we maintain and follow strict procedures to ensure the maximum possible integrity for our federal price calculations, the process for making the required calculations involves subjective judgments and the risk of errors always exists, which creates the potential for exposure under the false claims laws. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, and our methodologies for calculating federal prices are found to include flaws or to have been incorrectly applied, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and certain federal grantees, we also must participate in the VA FSS, pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract with the VA, under which we must make our innovator "covered drugs" available to the "Big Four" federal agencies—the VA, the DoD, the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard—at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or VHCA. The FCP is based on a weighted average wholesaler price known as the Non-FAMP which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. If we misstate Non-FAMPs or FCPs, we must restate these figures. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject us to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We have limited experience operating internationally, are subject to a number of risks associated with our international activities and operations and may not be successful in our efforts to expand internationally. We currently have limited operations outside of the U.S. and only have a small number of international employees. However, we have manufacturing, collaboration, clinical trial and other relationships outside the U.S., and CUBICIN and DIFICID are marketed internationally through collaborations. Also, in order to meet our long-term goals, we will need to grow our international operations significantly over the next several years. Consequently, we are and will continue to be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: •the fact that we have limited experience operating our business internationally; •unexpected adverse events related to CUBICIN, DIFICID or our other products or product candidates that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the U.S.; 52 Table of Contents •local, economic and political conditions, including geopolitical events, such as war and terrorism, foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased or unpredictable operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incidental to doing business in, or with a company located in, another country; •unexpected changes in reimbursement and pricing requirements, tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including foreign currency exchange risks, inflation or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and •compliance with foreign or U.S. laws, rules and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import, export and trade restrictions, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the FCPA and the Bribery Act in the UK, regulations or rules, which could lead to actions by us or our licensees, distributors, manufacturers, CROs, other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business in foreign countries or our employees who are working abroad that could subject us to investigation or prosecution under such foreign or U.S. laws. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results. EU Member States, Switzerland and other countries have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU Member States, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Data protection authorities from the different EU Member States may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results. If the currently proposed revised draft EU Data Protection Regulation is adopted in its current form it may also increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules. Our business is subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations, which increase our potential liability and require us to expend significant resources to ensure compliance. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third-party manufacturers, also may become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant, and the costs of complying with climate change laws also could be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations could subject us to substantial fines, penalties or environmental remediation costs, or cause us to lose permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, any of which could adversely affect our operations. 53 Table of Contents Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are made, in part, through direct sales to our customers, which include hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. As a result of adverse global credit and financial market conditions, our customers may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations for invoiced product sales or may delay payments, which could negatively affect our revenues, income and cash flow. In addition, we rely upon third parties for many aspects of our business, including our collaboration partners, wholesale distributors for our products, contract clinical trial providers, research organizations, manufacturers and third-party suppliers. Because of the tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a delay or disruption in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. The way that we account for our operational and business activities is based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among others: those related to revenue recognition, including product rebates, chargeback and return accruals; inventory; clinical research costs; investments; business combinations; intangible assets and impairment; income taxes; stock-based compensation; and contingent consideration. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based on our historical experience, future projections, our observance of trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and they form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values and fair values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. If actual results differ from these estimates as a result of unexpected conditions or events occurring which cause us to have to reassess our assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results and the performance of our stock. We could incur substantial costs in connection with product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials utilizing our products and product candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. For example, changes in laws outside the U.S. are expanding our potential liability for injuries that occur during clinical trials. Product liability insurance is expensive, subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the amounts that we desire for a price we are willing to pay. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The cost of defending any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability litigation and other related proceedings may also absorb significant management time. 54 Table of Contents Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We have also outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable both to service interruptions and to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions. We may be susceptible to third-party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. Service interruptions or security breaches could result in significant financial, legal, business or reputational harm. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including those factors described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •the investment community's view of the revenue, financial and business projections we provide to the public, and whether we succeed or fail in meeting or exceeding these projections; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •an adverse result in our litigation against Strides or Hospira to defend and/or assert our patents in connection with their respective efforts to seek approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN; •whether additional third parties submit filings with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of our products and the results of any litigation that we file to defend and/or assert our patents against such third parties; •liabilities in excess of amounts that we have accrued or reserved on our balance sheet; •third-party reports of our sales figures or revenues; •changes in the market, medical need or demand for our products and product candidates; •new legislation, laws or regulatory decisions that are adverse to us or our products; •announcements of clinical trial results, regulatory filings, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; •litigation, including stockholder or patent litigation; and •volatility in the markets unrelated to our business and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market 55 Table of Contents price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Several aspects of our corporate governance may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several aspects of our corporate governance might discourage an attempt to acquire us that could otherwise be viewed as beneficial to our stockholders. For example: •as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock; •our directors are divided into three classes and are elected to staggered three-year terms, which prevents our entire Board of Directors from being replaced in any single year or in two consecutive years; and •advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director to our Board of Directors and for a stockholder proposal to be presented at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and •if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely execute on our strategic plans and create additional value for our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 