D. Risk factors In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this Form 20-F, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating CE Franklin. Fluctuations in oil and gas prices could affect the demand for CE Franklin’s products and services and, therefore, CE Franklin’s sales, cash flows and profitability. CE Franklin’s operations are materially dependent upon the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and gas prices affect the level of such activity. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration and production activity can be volatile. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include: · relatively minor changes in, or threats to, the worldwide supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits; · the level of production by non-OPEC countries; · North American demand for gas; · the movement of the Canadian dollar relative to its U.S. counterpart (crude oil and natural gas exports are traded in U.S. dollars); · general economic and political conditions in North America and worldwide; and · the presence or absence of drilling incentives such as Canadian provincial royalty holidays, fluctuation in the value of the Canadian dollar, availability of new leases and concessions and government regulations regarding, among other things, export controls, environmental protection, taxation, price controls and product allocation. CE Franklin believes that any prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This would likely result in a corresponding decline in the demand for CE Franklin’s products and services and could have a material adverse effect on CE Franklin’s sales, cash flows and profitability. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for CE Franklin’s products and services or future conditions in the oil and gas and oilfield supply industries. Adverse weather conditions could temporarily decrease the demand for CE Franklin’s products and services. CE Franklin’s financial performance is tied closely to the seasonality of drilling activity. Higher drilling activity in Canada is generally experienced in the winter months. In the spring and early summer, drilling activity slows due to the difficulty in moving equipment during the spring thaws. To the extent that unseasonable weather conditions such as excessive rain or unusually warm winters affect the ability of CE Franklin’s customers to access their oil and gas wells, then the demand for CE Franklin’s products and services would temporarily decrease and the Company’s sales, cash flows and profitability would be adversely affected. CE Franklin operates in a highly competitive industry, which may adversely affect CE Franklin’s sales, cash flows and profitability. The Canadian oilfield supply industry in which CE Franklin operates is very competitive. The Company believes that its future profitability is partially influenced by competitive factors beyond its control, including: · the ability of some customers to purchase pipe, valves, flanges, fittings, production equipment, tubular products and other general oilfield supplies directly from the manufacturer rather than from the Company; · the ability of new brokers and distributors to enter the market if the oil and gas industry were to experience significant growth; · price competition among major supply companies; · cost of goods being subject to rising or declining commodity prices, such as the price of steel, and the inability of CE Franklin to pass these price increases on to customers, or the risk CE Franklin may have higher-cost inventory during declining commodity prices resulting in a deterioration in gross profit margins. Page 7 of 64 CE Franklin and its largest competitors generally operate at low profit margins due to price competition. Price competition is due in part to customer price pressure, in addition to the major supply companies competing for the same business. The loss of CE Franklin’s major supplier for tubular products could adversely affect the Company’s sales and gross profit. A portion of CE Franklin’s business is the sale of tubular products that are primarily obtained from one supplier. Although the Company believes that it has historically had and continues to have a good relationship with its supplier, there can be no assurance that such relationship will continue. In the event the Company is unable to source tubular products from its existing supplier, then CE Franklin would need to search for an alternate supplier of these goods. There can be no assurance that a suitable alternate supplier for such goods would be found. Labour shortages could adversely affect the Company’s ability to service its customers. The Company faces the challenge of attracting and retaining workers to meet any increase in demand for its products and services. In a highly competitive market for employees, the Company may experience periods of high employee turnover that could result in higher training costs or reduced levels of service to customers. This could result in increased costs or the loss of customers and market share. During periods of high demand for products and services, the Company may experience product shortages. The frequency and duration of the shortages may impact the financial performance of the Company. Product shortages may impact profit margins or could result in the loss of customers. The Company is exposed to market risks from changes in the Canadian prime interest rate and foreign exchange rates with respect to the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar for products it purchases outside Canada. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate contracts to hedge the risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Gain or losses with respect to such hedge contracts may materially affect net income. The majority of the Company’s sales are generated from customers in the energy sector. This includes major multinational and independent oil companies, pipeline companies and contract drilling companies operating in Canada. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2005 11% of sales (2004 – 12%; 2003 – 14%) were derived from sales to one customer. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s sales. The Company may experience a financial loss if its significant customers fail to pay CE Franklin for its products or services. The Company’s ability to collect the proceeds from the sale of its products and services from its customers depends on the payment ability of its customer base, which includes a significant customer who constitutes 11% of its annual sales. If this customer fails to pay CE Franklin for any reason, the Company could experience a material loss. Significant downtime at the Company’s 100,000 square foot centralized distribution centre located in Edmonton, Alberta could materially impact net income and cash flow from operations. The Company operates a hub and spoke distribution model with the distribution centre strategically located within reasonable proximity to a majority of its vendors. In addition, the distribution centre acts as a hub for its 41 branches. Significant downtime at this facility would impact the Company’s gross profit margins net income and cash flow from operations. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales to customers will depend on written contracts that are cancelable at any time, or will be based on verbal agreements. The key factors which will determine whether a customer will continue to use the Company are pricing, service quality and availability, strategically located service centers and technical knowledge and experience. There can be no assurance that the Company’s relationships with its customers will continue, and a significant reduction or total loss of business from these customers, if not offset by increased sales to new or existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income or cash flow from operations. If the Company is unable to successfully address potential material weakness in its internal controls, or any other control deficiencies, its ability to report its financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other requirements may be adversely affected. The Company is not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Page 8 of 64 and are therefore not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting for that purpose. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. CE Franklin will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 when required to make an assessment of internal controls under Section 404 for fiscal 2006. The steps CE Franklin has taken and will take in the future may not remediate the material weakness. In addition, the Company may identify material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in the Company’s control systems may affect its ability to comply with reporting requirements and listing standards or cause its financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of its common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, as well as subject CE Franklin to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While CE Franklin has taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in the Company’s ability to control all circumstances. Management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’s internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource const raints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the Company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the poli cies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If the Company loses key management and technical personnel, its business may suffer. CE Franklin relies upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel. Mr. West, in particular, has extensive experience in oilfield supply and distribution. The Company does not maintain any key man insurance and it cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with us in the future. An unexpected partial or total loss of their services may harm the Company’s business. The Company’s share ownership is highly concentrated and, as a result, CE Franklin’s principal shareholder effectively controls the Company’s business. As at the date of this Form 20F, CE Franklin’s largest shareholder, Smith International, owned approximately 53.3% of the Company’s common outstanding shares. As a result, Smith International has the voting power to significantly influence the Company’s policies, business and affairs and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of the Company’s assets. In addition, the concentration of the Company’s ownership may have the effect of delaying; deterring or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of the Company’s common shares. Page 9 of 64 The Company is at risk for certain operating hazards. CE Franklin’s operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and natural gas industry which can cause personal injury and damage to property or the environment. Litigation arising from an accident at a location where its products or services are used or provided may cause the Company to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. CE Franklin has insurance coverage against operating hazards, which the Company believes is customary in the industry. This insurance has deductibles and contains certain coverage exclusions and limitations. The Company’s insurance premiums can be increased or decreased based on the claims it makes on its insurance policies. Results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. 