ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information in and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on the success of CUBICIN, which may not continue to be widely accepted in the U.S. by physicians, patients, third-party payors, or the medical community in general or may not become as widely accepted in other countries around the world where CUBICIN is being commercialized or may be commercialized in the future. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development and commercialization of CUBICIN. For the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues will depend primarily on the commercial success of CUBICIN in the U.S., which depends upon its continued acceptance by the medical community and the future market demand and medical need for CUBICIN. CUBICIN was approved by the FDA in September 2003 for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, or cSSSI, and launched in the U.S. in November 2003. In May 2006, the FDA approved CUBICIN for the additional indication of S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates. We cannot be sure that CUBICIN will continue to be accepted by purchasers in the pharmaceutical market for the treatment of cSSSI and S. aureus bacteremia in the U.S. Further, CUBICIN currently competes in the U.S. with a number of existing anti-infective drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and potentially will compete against two new anti-infective drugs, telavancin and ceftobiprole, whose approval may occur in the near future, and others that are being reviewed by the FDA or under development, including late stage development, at other companies. As of December 31, 2008, CUBICIN had been approved in a total of 58 countries, including the U.S. Today CUBICIN is being marketed in 25 of these countries, with an additional 10 new market launches anticipated in 2009, the majority of these being Novartis territories. In the EU, CUBICIN is approved for the indications of cSSTI, RIE due to S. aureus, and S. aureus bacteremia when associated with RIE or with cSSTI. To date, EU sales have grown more slowly than U.S. sales due primarily to lower overall MRSA rates in the hospital and community, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S., the evolving commercialization strategy and mix of resources that Novartis has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. We cannot guarantee that our international CUBICIN partners will be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets. Moreover, we only receive a portion of the revenues from sales of CUBICIN by our international partners. The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN, and our ability to grow revenues from the sale of CUBICIN, depends on a number of additional factors, including those set forth below and the other CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section: •the continued safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived; •the ability of target organisms to develop resistance to CUBICIN; •risks of any unanticipated adverse reactions to CUBICIN in patients; 35 Table of Contents •the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived, compared to alternative therapies with respect to cost, availability of reimbursement, convenience, safety, efficacy and other factors; •the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; •our ability to educate the medical community about the safety and efficacy of CUBICIN in compliance with FDA, other federal and state government rules and regulations, and other promotional rules and standards; •the level of access that our sales force has to physicians who are likely to prescribe CUBICIN; •effects of the economic downturn in the U.S. and around the world, which could lower demand for CUBICIN due to, for example, hospitals', insurers' and third party payors' attempts to minimize costs by encouraging the purchase of lower-cost alternative therapies, including generic products like vancomycin, patients electing lower cost alternative therapies due to increased out-of-pocket costs, patients choosing to have fewer elective surgeries and other procedures, and lower overall admissions to hospitals; •our ability to continue to successfully sell CUBICIN and MERREM I.V. in the U.S. using the same sales force; and •our international partners' efforts and their success in achieving marketing approval for and selling CUBICIN in their respective territories, particularly Novartis in the EU. Because our primary source of revenues is CUBICIN, any impediment to the success of CUBICIN would have a significant effect on our business and financial results. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect certain proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of CUBICIN or our internally-developed drug candidates and research technologies. In addition, third parties from which we license proprietary rights or obtain other types of rights to develop and/or commercialize marketed products, drug candidates or research technologies may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect such proprietary rights. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN, our drug candidates, and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third party challenges. We consider that, in the aggregate, our unpatented proprietary technology, patent applications, patents and licenses under patents owned by third parties are of material importance to our operations. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing, both in the U.S. and in other important markets outside the U.S. Our patent position and the patent positions of our licensors are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and we cannot predict the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to our patents or to other companies' patents. We cannot assure you that the patents that we or our collaborators, licensors or other third parties with which we have similar arrangements, which we refer to collectively as our licensors or collaborators, obtain or the unpatented proprietary technology we or our licensors hold will afford us commercial protection. The primary composition of matter patent covering CUBICIN in the U.S. has expired. We own or have licensed rights to a limited number of patents directed toward methods of administration and methods of manufacture of CUBICIN. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted to us or to our licensors with respect to any of our or their pending patent applications for CUBICIN, our other drug 36 Table of Contents candidates, or our research technologies or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future. We also cannot be sure that any of our existing or our licensors' patents or any patents that may be granted to us or our licensors in the future will be commercially useful in protecting CUBICIN, our other drug candidates or our other technology. Of particular concern for a company like ours, that is primarily dependent upon CUBICIN to generate revenues and profits, is that third parties may seek to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA in which they claim that patents protecting CUBICIN owned or licensed by us and listed with the FDA in what is called "the Orange Book" are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. This type of ANDA is referred to as a Paragraph IV filing. On February 9, 2009, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Teva notifying us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the patents covering CUBICIN. Teva's notice letter advised that it is seeking FDA approval to market daptomycin for injection prior to the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,468,967, 6,852,689 and RE39,071. The notice letter further stated that Teva is asserting that claims in the referenced patents are not infringed and/or invalid. We plan to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva in response to the ANDA filing. By statute, if we initiate such a lawsuit against Teva within 45 days of receiving the notice letter, then the FDA would be automatically precluded from approving Teva's ANDA for 30 months (or such shorter or longer period as ordered by the court because either party failed to expedite the lawsuit), or until a district court decision finding the patents invalid or not infringed, whichever occurs earlier. Once the lawsuit is filed, the 30-month stay period will begin as of February 9, 2009, the date we were notified of the filing. A court or other agency with jurisdiction may find the patents that are the subject of the notice letter invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. Until the litigation commences, and during the period in which such litigation is pending, the uncertainty of its outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in the litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final unappealable adverse result in the litigation will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We cannot be certain that the named applicants or inventors of the subject matter covered by our patent applications or patents, whether directly owned by us or licensed to us, were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us. Even if we have valid and enforceable patents, these patents still may not provide sufficient protection against competing products or processes. If our collaborators or our consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Such inventions and/or processes will not necessarily become our property but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we market our drug products may afford little or no effective protection to our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors' ability to compete with us in such countries. We have and may in the future engage in collaborations, sponsored research agreements, and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions that have received and may receive funding from U.S. government agencies. As a result of these arrangements, the U.S. government or certain third parties may have rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations and agreements as required by law or by such agreements. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our manufacturing and product development activities. To the extent that we maintain a competitive advantage by relying on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary information, such competitive advantage may be compromised if others independently develop the same or similar technology, resulting in an adverse 37 Table of Contents effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary information in part through confidentiality provisions and invention assignment provisions in agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements could be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breaches. Our trademarks, CUBICIN and Cubist, in the aggregate are considered to be material to our business. These trademarks are covered by registrations or pending applications for registration in the USPTO and in other countries. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. We cannot assure you that the trademark protection that we have pursued or will pursue in the future will afford us commercial protection. Beyond the specific concerns addressed above, intellectual property laws and regulations are constantly changing, and vary among different jurisdictions around the world, in ways that may affect our ability to protect or enforce our rights. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN and MERREM I.V. As a result, our commercialization of CUBICIN could be stopped, delayed, or made less profitable if those third parties fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of CUBICIN or fail to do so at acceptable prices, and our revenues from the promotion of MERREM I.V. could be stopped, delayed or impeded if AstraZeneca fails to supply to the market sufficient quantities of MERREM I.V. We do not have the capability to manufacture our own CUBICIN active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API. We have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with ACS Dobfar SpA, or ACS, to manufacture and supply us with CUBICIN API for commercial purposes. ACS is our sole provider of our commercial supply of CUBICIN API. Pursuant to our agreement with ACS, ACS currently stores some CUBICIN API at its facilities in Italy. In order to offset the risk of a single-source API supplier, we currently hold a safety stock of API in addition to what is stored at ACS. Any disaster at the facilities where we hold this safety stock, such as a fire or loss of power, that causes a loss of this safety stock, would heighten the risk that we face from having only one supplier of API. In addition, we do not have the capability to manufacture or supply our own CUBICIN finished drug product. We have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with both Hospira Worldwide, Inc., or Hospira, and Oso Biopharmaceuticals Manufacturing, LLC (successor-in-interest to Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, who was successor-in-interest to Cardinal Health PTS, LLC), or Oso, to manufacture and supply to us finished drug product. If Hospira, Oso, or, in particular, ACS, experiences any significant difficulties in its respective manufacturing processes for CUBICIN API or finished drug product, including any difficulties with their raw materials, or if they have significant problems with their businesses, whether as a result of the current credit and financial crisis or otherwise, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN. Our inability to coordinate the efforts of our third party manufacturing partners, or the lack of capacity available at our third party manufacturing partners, could impair our ability to supply CUBICIN at required levels. Because of the significant regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify a new bulk or finished product supplier, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN if we decided to transfer the manufacture of CUBICIN to one or more other suppliers in an effort to deal with these or other difficulties with our current suppliers. Because the ACS manufacturing facilities are located in Italy, we must ship CUBICIN API to the U.S. for finishing, packaging and labeling. Each shipment of our API is of significant value, and while in transit, it could be lost or damaged. Moreover, at any time after shipment to the U.S., our API could be lost or damaged as it is stored at our warehouser, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc., or ICS, and moves through our finished product manufacturers. We have taken risk 38 Table of Contents mitigation steps and have purchased insurance to protect against such loss or damage. However, depending on when in this process the API is lost or damaged, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our finished product manufacturers or insurers and could experience significant interruptions with the supply of CUBICIN. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage to our API. We are also subject to financial risk from volatile fuel costs due to shipping CUBICIN API to the U.S., as well as shipping of finished product within the U.S. and to our international distribution partners for packaging, labeling and distribution. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of CUBICIN API due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability. Upon any such event in Italy, the supply of CUBICIN API stored at ACS could be impacted. While we have reduced the cost of producing CUBICIN in recent years, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to reduce the costs of commercial scale manufacturing of CUBICIN over time. In order to continue to reduce costs, we may need to develop and implement process improvements, at which we may or may not be successful. In addition, in order to implement any such process improvements that we are successful in developing, we will need, from time to time, to notify or make submissions with regulatory authorities, and the improvements may be subject to approval by such regulatory authorities. We cannot be sure that such approvals will be granted or granted in a timely fashion. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enhance and optimize output in our commercial manufacturing process. If we cannot enhance and optimize output, we may not be able to further reduce our costs over time. Under our agreement with AstraZeneca with respect to the promotion of MERREM I.V., AstraZeneca is responsible for all activities related to the manufacture and supply of MERREM I.V. We do not have the capability to manufacture and supply MERREM I.V. nor do we have the contractual right to do so should AstraZeneca fail to supply adequate quantities of MERREM I.V. to meet demand in the U.S. Any interruption in supply of MERREM I.V. would likely cause us to fail to generate the revenues that we expect from our promotion of MERREM I.V. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and may face additional competition in the future, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, including from Teva, who is seeking to market a generic version of CUBICIN, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, such as larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis technologies and drug products that are more effective or less costly than CUBICIN or any drug candidate that we may have or develop, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. If price competition inhibits the continued acceptance of CUBICIN, if physicians prefer other existing drug products over CUBICIN, or if physicians switch to new drug products or choose to reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, CUBICIN may face competition from drug candidates currently in clinical development and drug candidates that could receive regulatory approval before CUBICIN in countries where CUBICIN is not yet approved. The competition in the market for therapeutic products that address serious Gram-positive bacterial infections is intense. CUBICIN faces competition in the U.S. from commercially available drugs such as vancomycin, marketed generically by Abbott Laboratories, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and others, Zyvox®, marketed by Pfizer, Synercid®, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Tygacil®, 39 Table of Contents marketed by Wyeth. In January, 2009, Pfizer and Wyeth announced that Pfizer has agreed to acquire Wyeth. In particular, vancomycin has been a widely used and well known antibiotic for over 40 years and is sold in a relatively inexpensive generic form. In November 2008, an FDA Anti-infective Drug Advisory Committee, or AIDAC, meeting was held to discuss pending NDAs for three antibiotics: telavancin, filed by Theravance, Inc., or Theravance; oritavancin, filed by Targanta Therapeutics Corporation, or Targanta, which in late February 2009, became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Medicines Company; and iclaprim, filed by Arpida Ltd., or Arpida. The NDAs for each of these agents sought approval for the treatment of cSSSI. The AIDAC voted in favor of approval of telavancin and made recommendations regarding certain safety issues. In late January 2009, Theravance submitted an NDA for telavancin as a potential therapy for hospital-acquired pneumonia, or HAP, based on the positive results of the telavancin HAP Phase 3 trial announced in December 2007. In late February 2009, Theravance announced that it had received a Complete Response letter from the FDA outlining requirements for approval of telavancin for the treatment of cSSSI. The Complete Response letter requires a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy and a boxed warning related to the risk of teratogenicity (the ability to cause birth defects), as well as requesting data on patients with certain renal risk factors from the cSSSI and HAP studies, revisions to the draft label, and a customary safety update. No additional clinical trials are required. The AIDAC, in November 2008, also voted against approval of oritavancin and iclaprim based on the data submitted in their respective NDAs, and the FDA recently issued complete response letters on the NDAs for these drugs, indicating that they were not approvable at this time for treatment of cSSSI. The FDA also is reviewing an NDA for ceftobiprole, a broad spectrum agent with MRSA activity, which was submitted in May 2007 by a division of Johnson & Johnson, which has an exclusive worldwide license to ceftobiprole from Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. or Basilea. Johnson & Johnson announced that its Complete Response (to the Approvable Letter received by Johnson & Johnson in March 2008) was accepted in September 2008 as a Class 2 Complete Response. In late February, Basilea announced that the as a result of FDA inspections at investigator sites and of the sponsor, the FDA suggested that Johnson & Johnson have additional clinical site audits performed. These additional audits are anticipated to occur in the first half of 2009 with a Complete Response submission foreseen in the second half of this year. Basilea also announced that it has filed claims in arbitration against Johnson & Johnson and affiliated companies related to delays in approval of ceftobiprole. Telavancin and ceftobiprole may be approved and marketed in the near future and could compete with CUBICIN. Oritavancin and iclaprim, as well as other antibiotics in clinical development, could compete with CUBICIN, if approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies, in future years. Teva notified us on February 9, 2009, that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the patents covering CUBICIN. We plan to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva in response to the ANDA filing. By statute, if we initiate such a lawsuit against Teva within 45 days of receiving the notice letter, then the FDA would be automatically precluded from approving Teva's ANDA for 30 months (or such shorter or longer period as ordered by the court because either party failed to expedite the lawsuit), or until a district court decision finding the patents invalid or not infringed, whichever occurs earlier. If Teva's ANDA is ultimately approved by the FDA and Teva launches a generic version of CUBICIN, which could occur after the district court proceeding if the district court rules in favor of Teva or before the completion of the district court proceeding if the 30-month statutory stay (as shortened or lengthened by the court) has expired and Teva decides to launch prior to the district court decision, then we would face competition in the U.S. from a generic version of CUBICIN. This would likely impact our ability to sell CUBICIN at a significantly higher price than the generic version of CUBICIN and negatively impact our market share, and would therefore likely have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents MERREM faces competition in the U.S. from commercially available drugs such as Primaxin® I.V., marketed by Merck as well as Doribax®, marketed by Ortho-McNeil, a Johnson & Johnson company. In particular, Primaxin I.V. has been a widely used and well known antibiotic for over 20 years (approved in 1986). Doribax was recently approved by the FDA in October 2007 for two indications (complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis). Ortho-McNeil is pursuing additional indications for Doribax. In August 2008, the FDA issued a complete response letter outlining the actions necessary to address outstanding issues with the supplemental NDA for use of Doribax in patients with nosocomial pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia. Any inability on our part to compete with existing drug products or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory sales and marketing capabilities, we may not continue to succeed in commercializing CUBICIN or succeed in our promotion activities with respect to MERREM I.V. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be successful in commercializing CUBICIN or will be successful in promoting MERREM I.V. or that the promotion of MERREM I.V. will not detract from our commercialization efforts for CUBICIN. In connection with our launch of CUBICIN in November 2003, we developed our own sales and marketing capabilities in the U.S., and we continue to develop those capabilities. We only began promoting MERREM I.V. in July 2008, so our sales force has limited experience selling two drug products simultaneously. There is also a risk that members of our sales force may terminate their employment with us to pursue opportunities at other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that they believe may provide greater financial or professional opportunities. In addition, our partner in Europe, Novartis, has significant pharmaceutical sales experience but limited experience marketing and selling CUBICIN. Novartis began its launch of CUBICIN in nine EU countries in 2006, with seven more added in 2007 and 2008. To date, EU sales have grown more slowly that U.S. sales due primarily to lower overall MRSA rates in the hospital and community, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S. , the evolving commercialization strategy and mix of resources that Novartis has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. Other than in the EU, our international partners have launched CUBICIN only in Israel, Canada, Macau, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines and Argentina. Except for Israel, these launches have all taken place in the last year. We cannot guarantee that our partners will be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets. Our business may suffer if we fail to manage our growth and increased breadth of our activities effectively. We have expanded the scope of our business significantly over the last year. Since January 1, 2008, we have added MERREM I.V. as a product that we promote while we continue to sell CUBICIN, in-licensed two clinical stage drug candidates and filed INDs for two internally developed drug candidates. We also have grown our employee base substantially, particularly in research and development and sales. Prior to 2008, we never promoted more than one product at one time, nor had we ever had more than two drug candidates in clinical development. We plan to continue to add products and drug candidates through internal development and in-licensing over the next several years and to continue the development of our existing drug candidates that demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety to advance in clinical trials. To manage the existing and planned future growth and the increasing breadth and complexity of our activities, we will need to continue to build our organization and make significant additional investments in personnel, information management systems and resources. Our ability to develop and grow the commercialization of our products, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to effectively manage and progress all of these activities, our ability to maximize the value of one or more of our products or drug candidates could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business. 41 Table of Contents If pre-clinical or clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business. Before we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates, our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that usually takes many years. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any drug candidates will demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of our drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain marketing approvals. Companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including companies with greater experience in pre-clinical testing and clinical trials than we have, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier phase trials. Some of the drug candidates that we are developing are in the pre-clinical stage. In order for a drug candidate to move from this stage to human clinical trials, the FDA must approve an IND. The FDA will approve the IND if it is established that a potential drug candidate will not expose humans to unreasonable risks and that the compound has pharmacological activity that justifies commercial development. It takes significant time and expense to generate the data to support an IND filing. In many cases, companies spend the time and resources only to discover that the data are not sufficient to support a filing or gain IND approval. This has happened to us in the past, and likely will happen again in the future. In fact, most compounds that are discovered never make it into human clinical trials. Four of our drug candidates are currently in the clinical stage, and we continue to conduct clinical trials of CUBICIN. Once a drug candidate enters human clinical trials, the trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the independent committees responsible for the ethical review of clinical studies (e.g. IRBs and Ethical Committees, or ECs) at the centers at which the studies are conducted. There may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay either or both of the start and finish of the clinical trials. Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from earlier stage clinical studies might require modifications or delays in later stage clinical trials or could cause a termination or suspension of drug development. These types of delays or suspensions can result in increased development costs and delays in marketing approvals. Our ability to secure clinical trial insurance could also cause delays. In order to initiate clinical trials in pediatric patients, sponsor companies must demonstrate that the drug candidate is not only safe, but has the potential for efficacy. This makes it more difficult to initiate clinical trials in pediatric patients and could delay clinical development programs that are targeted at pediatric patients, such as those that we may seek to conduct in our development of ALN-RSV01. In addition, following entry into force in the EU of new legislation governing medicinal products for pediatric use, manufacturers are required to include data on the use of the medicine with their marketing authorization applications for new medicines and line-extensions for existing patent-protected medicines. This data is generated from an agreed pediatric investigation plan. The nature of our drug candidates may make preparation of the required pediatric investigational plan and generation of the related data difficult. This, in turn, may delay the submission of our marketing authorization application for the medicinal product. Furthermore, there are a number of additional factors that may cause delays in our clinical trials. The rate of completion of our clinical trials is dependent in part on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in marketing 42 Table of Contents approvals. In addition, our clinical trials may be delayed or prematurely terminated by one or more of the following factors: •our inability to manufacture, or obtain from a third party manufacturer, sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; •the impact of the results of other clinical trials on the drug candidates that we are developing, including by other parties who have rights to develop drug candidates being developed by us in other indications or other jurisdictions, such as clinical trials of ecallantide that may be conducted by Dyax or its other licensors or clinical trials of ALN-RSV01 that may be conducted by Alnylam's partner in Asia, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.; •the delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites; •the delay or failure in obtaining IRB review and approval of the clinical trial protocol; •our inability to reach agreement on trial design and priorities with collaborators with which we are co-developing a drug candidate, such as ALN-RSV01, which we are co-developing with Alnylam in North America; •the failure of third-party clinical research organizations that we have engaged to manage the trials to perform their oversight of the trials or meet expected deadlines; •the failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities and records to be in compliance with the FDA's Good Clinical Practices, or EU legislation governing good clinical practice, including the failure to pass FDA, EMEA, or EU Member State inspections of clinical trials; •inability to enroll study patients; •unforeseen safety issues; •lack of demonstrated efficacy in the clinical trials; •our inability to reach agreement with the FDA, the competent national authorities of EU Member States or ECs on a trial design that we are able to execute; •the FDA, the competent national authorities of EU Member States or ECs placing a trial on "clinical hold" or temporarily or permanently stopping a trial for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns; •difficulty in adequately following up with patients after treatment; or •changes in laws, regulation, or regulatory policy. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed or cancelled, particularly either of our Phase 2 clinical trials of ecallantide as a potential treatment for the prevention of blood loss during cardiothoracic surgery, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to discover, in-license, or acquire drug candidates, we will not be able to implement our current business strategy. We have made significant investments in research and development over the years since we were founded and have recently increased our research and development workforce. However, except for the drug candidates for which we recently submitted INDs, none of our internally developed product candidates have reached the clinical development stage. We cannot assure you that we will reach this stage for any additional internally developed drug candidates or that there will be clinical benefits associated with CB-182,804, CB-183,315 or any other drug candidates that we do develop. While we 43 Table of Contents are researching other drug candidates for potential clinical development, most drug candidates never make it to the clinical development stage. Even those that do make it into clinical development have only a small chance of gaining regulatory approval and becoming a commercial product. CUBICIN and our other drug candidates that have progressed to Phase 2 clinical trials were the result of in-licensing patents and technologies from third parties. These in-licensing activities represent a significant expense and would generally require us to make upfront payments, pay development and commercialization milestone payments and royalties to other parties on product sales, as do our in-licensing agreements for CUBICIN, ecallantide and, with respect to the non-North American territory, ALN-RSV01. In addition, we may structure our in-licensing arrangements as cost and profit sharing arrangements, in which case we would share development and commercialization costs with a third party. For example, under our collaboration with Alnylam, we equally share the costs and profits of developing and commercializing ALN-RSV01 in North America with Alnylam. We intend to continue to source drug candidates through acquisition or in-licensing. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire or in-license additional desirable drug candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. In fact, we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for the acquisition or in-licensing of any promising drug candidates from a variety of other companies with interest in the anti-infective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more experience than we have in pharmaceutical development and sales and significantly more financial resources than we have. In particular, in recent years, very large pharmaceutical companies with significant resources, such as Novartis and Pfizer, have focused their attention on opportunities in the anti-infective marketplace. Because of the rising intensity of the level of competition for such products, the cost of acquiring or in-licensing such candidates has grown dramatically in recent years, and candidates are often priced and sold at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. Such competition and higher prices are most pronounced for late-stage candidates and already-marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our business. If we needed additional capital to fund our acquisition or in-licensing of such a candidate, we would need to seek financing by borrowing funds or through the capital markets. Given the current distress in the financial and credit markets, it may be difficult for us to acquire the capital that we would need. If we are unable to discover or acquire promising candidates, we will not be able to implement our business strategy. Even if we succeed in discovering or acquiring drug candidates, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing them to gain approval for use in humans. Failure to develop new drug candidates successfully could have a material adverse effect on our long term business, operating results and financial condition. We, and/or our partners, will need to obtain regulatory approvals for CUBICIN in international jurisdictions in which CUBICIN has not yet received approvals, our existing drug candidates and any other drug candidates in order to commercialize them as products, and our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of products resulting from our development efforts is contingent upon obtaining and maintaining these approvals. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include lengthy and detailed pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Any drug candidate will require governmental approvals prior to commercialization. To date, we have not obtained government approval in the U.S. for any drug product other than CUBICIN for the indications of cSSSI and S. aureus bacteremia, including those with right-sided infective endocarditis. Our collaborator, Novartis, has received approval for marketing CUBICIN in the EU for the indications of cSSTI, RIE due to S. aureus, and S. aureus bacteremia when associated with RIE or with cSSTI. Novartis and our other collaborators, including AstraZeneca 44 Table of Contents AB or its affiliates, Sepracor, Inc., successor-in-interest to Oryx Pharmaceuticals Inc., Kuhnil Pharmaceutical Corp., TTY Biopharm Co. Ltd., and Medison Pharma, Ltd., have received approval for marketing CUBICIN in 25 countries outside of the EU for the same, or very similar, indications for which we have approval in the U.S. Our international collaborators have submitted or plan on submitting applications for approvals to market CUBICIN in other territories, however, we cannot be sure that any regulatory authority will approve these or any future submissions on a timely basis or at all. Pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of our drug candidates will be subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of foreign regulators typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. No product can receive FDA approval unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any drug candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those drug candidates. The results of our clinical testing of a drug candidate may cause us to suspend, terminate or redesign our clinical testing program for that drug candidate. We cannot be sure when we, independently or with our collaborators, might be in a position to submit additional drug candidates for regulatory review. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. In addition, data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval and could even affect the commercial success of a product that is already on the market based on earlier trials, such as CUBICIN. In addition, we cannot be sure that regulatory approval will be granted for drug candidates that we submit for regulatory review. Moreover, if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed as well as additional post-approval requirements. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. Even if our drug products are approved for marketing and commercialization, we will need to comply with post-approval clinical study commitments in order to maintain the approval of such products. For example, in connection with our U.S. marketing approvals for CUBICIN, we have made certain Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA, including for studies of renal-compromised patients, pediatric patients, and those with RIE. We worked with the FDA to design these studies and have completed one study of CUBICIN in renal-compromised patients. In late 2008, we submitted a proposal for a follow-on study in these renal-compromised patients to the FDA and await feedback from the FDA before proceeding further. We initiated studies of CUBICIN in pediatric patients and those with RIE in 2008. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not complete these studies and the FDA, as a result, requires us to change the marketing label for CUBICIN. In addition, adverse medical events that occur during clinical trials or during commercial marketing of CUBICIN could result in claims against us and the temporary or permanent withdrawal of CUBICIN from commercial marketing, which could seriously harm our business and cause our stock 45 Table of Contents price to decline. In particular, our planned pediatric trial exposes us to more uncertain and potentially greater risk because of the age of the patients. The FDA may change its approval requirements or policies for antibiotics, or apply interpretations to its requirements or policies, in a manner that could delay or prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates or any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek in the U.S. Regulatory requirements for the approval of antibiotics in the U.S. may change in a manner that requires us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials, which may delay or prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates or any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek. Historically, the FDA has not required placebo-controlled clinical trials for approval of antibiotics but instead has relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic treatment, and it must be shown that the product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment by a defined margin. In 2006, the FDA refused to accept approval studies of successfully completed non-inferiority studies as the basis for approval for certain types of antibiotics. In October 2007, the FDA issued draft guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies to support approval of antibiotics. Under this draft guidance, the FDA recommends that for some antibiotic indications, sponsor companies carefully consider study designs other than non-inferiority, such as placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo. Conducting placebo-controlled trials for antibiotics can be time-consuming, expensive, and difficult to complete. IRBs may not grant approval for placebo-controlled trials because of ethical concerns about denying some participating patients access to any antibiotic therapy during the course of the trial. Even if IRB and EC approval is obtained, it may be difficult to enroll patients in placebo-controlled trials because certain patients would not receive antibiotic therapy. The draft guidance does not articulate clear standards or policies for demonstrating the safety and efficacy of antibiotics generally and reserves until a later date the FDA's guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies in all therapeutic areas. The lack of clear guidance from the FDA creates uncertainties about the standards for the approval of antibiotics in the U.S. These factors could delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates that we may seek to develop, such as CB-182,804 and CB-183,315, or any additional indications for CUBICIN in the U.S. for which the FDA requires placebo-controlled trials. Even if we complete these trials, we may not be able to obtain adequate evidence of safety or efficacy to support approval. In November 2008, an AIDAC meeting considered non-inferiority margins for new antibiotics for cSSSIs. The AIDAC concluded that non-inferiority trials are acceptable for cSSSI indications and that a 10% non-inferiority margin may be acceptable if major abscess types of cSSSI infections are excluded and the antibiotic provides safety, cost, or antimicrobial benefits. The AIDAC discussed but did not reach consensus about whether the non-inferiority margin should be justified by the type of cSSSI infection or applied to cSSSI as a group. The position of the AIDAC may or may not be applied by FDA in its review of applications of regulatory filings. Moreover, recent events, including complications arising from FDA-approved drugs, have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in new legislation by the U.S. Congress and increased caution by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory approvals. In particular, non-inferiority studies have come under scrutiny from Congress, in part because of a congressional investigation as to the safety of Ketek®, an antibiotic approved by the FDA on the basis of non-inferiority studies. Certain key members of Congress have asked the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), an independent, nonpartisan arm of Congress, to investigate the FDA's reliance on non-inferiority studies as a basis for approval. Congress may draft, introduce, and pass legislation that could significantly change the process for approval of antibiotics by the FDA. 46 Table of Contents The increased scrutiny by Congress and regulatory authorities may significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, as well as impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing requirements on pharmaceutical products generally and particularly with respect to antibiotics, one of the key areas of focus. Any delay in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals could prevent us from successfully commercializing any new antibiotic product candidates such as CB-182,804 and CB-183,315, receiving any additional indications for CUBICIN, generating revenues, and sustaining profitability. If we are unable to generate the revenues we expect from MERREM I.V. or from any of our other drug candidates, our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited. Because of the long development time of drug candidates, none of the drug candidates that we are currently developing would generate revenues for many years. Unless and until we are able to successfully commercialize additional drug products, we will continue to rely primarily on CUBICIN and, to a lesser extent, on MERREM I.V. for our revenues. In the case of MERREM I.V., our agreement with AstraZeneca contains several provisions pursuant to which our rights to promote MERREM I.V. in the U.S. could terminate prior to the December 31, 2012, expiration date in the agreement. If the agreement terminates prior to its expiration date, we will not be able to realize the fully expected value from the promotion of MERREM I.V. If we are unable to realize the full expected value from the promotion of MERREM I.V., bring any of our current or future drug candidates to market, or acquire or obtain other rights to any additional marketed drug products, our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited. We have collaborative and other similar types of relationships that expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate continuing to enter into, collaborative and other similar types of arrangements, which we refer to as collaborations, with multiple third parties to discover, test, develop, manufacture and market drug candidates and drug products. For example, we have agreements with the following companies to develop and commercialize CUBICIN outside the U.S.: a Novartis subsidiary, which is responsible for seeking regulatory approvals and commercializing CUBICIN in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, India and certain Central American, South American and Middle Eastern countries; AstraZeneca AB, which is responsible for seeking regulatory approvals and commercializing CUBICIN in China and other countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East; a Merck subsidiary, which is responsible for the development and commercialization of CUBICIN in Japan; and other partners for the commercialization of CUBICIN in Israel, Taiwan, Canada and South Korea. In April 2008, we entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Dyax for the development and commercialization in North America and Europe of the intravenous formulation of ecallantide for the prevention of blood loss during surgery. Under this collaboration, our license includes the rights to develop and commercialize ecallantide within a specified field with Dyax retaining rights to develop ecallantide itself or with other partners outside of our field. In July 2008, we entered into an exclusive agreement with AstraZeneca to promote and provide other support for MERREM I.V. in the U.S. Under the agreement, AstraZeneca will continue to provide marketing and commercial support for MERREM I.V. and is responsible for manufacturing and supplying MERREM I.V. In January 2009, we entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Alnylam. Under the agreement, we will co-develop with Alnylam therapeutic products for the treatment of RSV in North America and equally share the costs and profits of such products with Alnylam and have a license to solely develop and commercialize such products in the rest of the world, excluding Asia. In addition to the types of collaborations described above, we collaborate with a variety of other companies on the development of drug product candidates which involve the licensing of some or all of the rights of a company's drug product candidate and for the manufacturing, clinical trials, clinical and preclinical testing, and research activities. Collaborations such as these are necessary for us to research, 47 Table of Contents develop, and commercialize drug candidates. We cannot be sure that we will be able to establish any additional collaborative relationships on terms acceptable to us or that we will be able to work successfully with our existing collaborators or their successors. Reliance on collaborations poses a number of risks including the following: •the focus, direction, amount and timing of resources dedicated by our CUBICIN collaborators to their respective collaborations with us is not under our control, which may result in less successful commercialization of CUBICIN in our partners' territories than if we had control over the CUBICIN franchise in these territories; •our CUBICIN collaborators may not perform their obligations, including appropriate and timely reporting on adverse events in their territories, as expected; •AstraZeneca may not provide the level of support that it is required to provide under our agreement with respect to MERREM I.V. or may not support our promotion of MERREM I.V. to the degree that we would like, leading us to receive lower than expected revenues from this collaboration; •the failure of AstraZeneca to manufacture and supply adequate quantities of MERREM I.V. in the U.S. would likely cause us to receive lower then expected revenues from this collaboration; •we may be dependent upon other collaborators to manufacture and supply drug product to us, as we are with AstraZeneca for MERREM I.V., Dyax for ecallantide and Alnylam for ALN-RSV01, in order to develop or commercialize the drug product that is the subject of the collaboration, and our collaborators may encounter unexpected issues or delays in manufacturing and/or supplying such drug product; •some drug candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own drug candidates or drug products, which may lead them to reduce their effort on the drug candidates or drug products on which we are collaborating with them; •the protection of proprietary rights, including patent rights, for the technology underlying the drug products we license may be under the control of our collaborators and therefore our ability to control the patent protection of the drug product may be limited; •in situations, such as with ecallantide, where our collaborator retains rights to develop and commercialize the product, or with ALN-RSV01, where we and our collaborator share decision making power with respect to development of the product, we and our collaborator may not agree on decisions that could affect the development, regulatory approval, manufacture or commercial viability of the product; •in situations, such as with ALN-RSV01, where we and our collaborator are sharing the costs of development, our collaborators may not have the funds to contribute to their share of the costs of the collaboration; •disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation, or the preferred course of development or commercialization strategy, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates or products that we are marketing, such as MERREM I.V., lead to additional responsibilities with respect to drug candidates or marketed products, or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would be time-consuming and expensive or could cause disruptions in the collaborative nature of these relationships which could impede the success of our endeavors; and •some of our collaborators might develop independently, or with others, drug products that compete with ours. 48 Table of Contents Collaborations with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish such arrangements on terms favorable to us or working successfully with our collaborators or third parties with whom we have similar arrangements will have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. A variety of risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships outside the U.S., and CUBICIN is marketed internationally through collaborations. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries. Associated risks of conducting operations in foreign countries include: •differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; •unexpected CUBICIN adverse events that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the U.S.; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; •the potential for so-called parallel importing; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; •compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees employed, living or traveling abroad; •foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; •workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.; •violations of laws by our licensees and distributors, including violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •production shortages resulting from events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; •business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, and natural disasters in other countries; •relatively lower pricing for our products in one country that could affect pricing of our products, or the perception thereof, in other countries; and •different intellectual property laws and regulations that may make it more difficult for us to secure, protect and enforce the protection of our intellectual property, including the CUBICIN patents that we hold and are seeking in many countries outside the U.S. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to maintain profitability. 49 Table of Contents We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical trials for CUBICIN and our drug candidates and expect to do so with respect to other drug candidates, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third party service providers in the conduct of our clinical trials for CUBICIN and our drug candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the investigators are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the further development, approval and commercialization of CUBICIN, our existing drug candidates and other future drug candidates. We have undertaken and may in the future undertake strategic acquisitions, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. We acquired Illumigen Biosciences, Inc., or Illumigen, in December 2007, which was only the second business acquisition we have made since our inception. Although we have limited experience in acquiring businesses, we may acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; dealing with unfamiliar laws, customs and practices in foreign jurisdictions; and the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, in paying for an acquisition we may deplete our cash resources or dilute our shareholder base by issuing additional shares. If the credit and financial markets continue to be distressed, we may not be able to replenish our cash resources on favorable terms or at all or we may have to issue additional shares on unfavorable terms which would exacerbate the dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation assumptions and our models for an acquired product or business may turn out to be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to have overvalued an acquisition target, or that the accounting effect of the acquisition under new accounting rules will not be what we had anticipated. There also is the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. Because our acquisition of Illumigen occurred recently, many of these risks still exist with respect to this transaction. If we acquire businesses with promising drug candidates or technologies, we may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to move one or more drug candidates through pre-clinical and/or clinical development to regulatory approval and commercialization. We cannot assure you that, following an acquisition, we will achieve revenues that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to acquire any businesses, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness, and we may not be able to raise such funds on favorable or desirable terms or at all, especially if the credit and financial markets continue to be distressed. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. 50 Table of Contents The investment of our cash is subject to risks which could result in losses. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments; principally securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes, auction rate securities and money market instruments. These investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. These risks have been heightened in today's tightened and fluctuating credit and financial markets. Such risks, including any additional write downs of our auction rate securities or the failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, additional impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investments in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $49.2 million of the $58.1 million in auction rate securities that we hold due to the significant deterioration in the credit and financial markets. We will continue to monitor the credit and financial markets, and if there is continued deterioration, the fair value of our auction rate securities could decline further resulting in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. Any recovery of the fair market value would not be recognized in our financial statements until the gain is realized upon sale of the auction rate securities. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses. Since we began operations, we incurred substantial net losses in every fiscal period until the third quarter of 2006. We generated net income of $169.8 million and $48.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $266.2 million. We may incur future operating losses related to the development of our other drug candidates or investments in other product opportunities. As a result, we cannot make specific predictions about our continued profitability. If we fail to maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. We may require additional funds and we do not know if additional funds would be available to us at all, or on terms that we find acceptable, particularly given the distress in the financial and credit markets. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and the anticipated cash flow from revenues will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses, debt obligations and capital requirements under our current business plan for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot guarantee that certain economic and strategic factors will not require us to seek additional funds. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, promote MERREM I.V., develop our existing and any newly-acquired drug candidates, actively seek to acquire companies with marketed products or product candidates, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates, expand our research and development activities and infrastructure, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond our control. Other than our $90.0 million credit facility with RBS Citizens Bank, we have no other committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when and if needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to our shareholders or us, particularly if the credit and financial markets continue to be distressed. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot be 51 Table of Contents certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be on acceptable or affordable terms, particularly if the credit and financial markets continue to be distressed. Our annual debt service obligations on our 2.25% convertible subordinated notes that we issued in June 2006, or 2.25% Notes, are approximately $6.8 million per year in interest payments. We may add additional lease lines to finance capital expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We may also be forced to obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain additional capital, if needed, we will not be able to execute our current business plan successfully. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical and sales personnel. Historically, we have been highly dependent on our management, scientific and medical personnel. In recent years, our sales personnel have become increasingly important to the success of our business. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at Cubist, we have provided stock options that vest over time. In the future, we expect to continue to use stock options, restricted stock units or other equity incentives to attract and retain employees. The value to employees of these equity-based incentives, particularly stock options, is significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we have limited control over and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. We have also provided retention letters to our executive officers. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific, medical and sales teams have in the past and may in the future terminate their employment with us. Other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates or our existing employees than what we have to offer. If we are unable to grow our business according to our business plan, including by developing or acquiring additional drug products, we may become a less attractive place to work for our existing employees and for high quality candidates. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business or financial results if we are unable to effectively compensate for these losses, and if we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can discover, develop and commercialize drug candidates will be limited. 52 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our products or processes could result in liability for damage or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and interference and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The types of situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings include: •We or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights; •We or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties' patents; •If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we or our collaborators may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention; •If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we and our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; •If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our brand names infringe their trademarks, we and our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; and •If third parties file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of our products prior to expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by us, we may need to defend our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. An adverse outcome in any litigation or other proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology that is at issue or to license the technology from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. On February 9, 2009, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter from Teva notifying us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the patents covering CUBICIN. Teva's notice letter advised that it is seeking FDA approval to market daptomycin for injection prior to the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,468,967, 6,852,689 and RE39,071. The notice letter further stated that Teva is asserting that claims in the referenced patents are not infringed and/or invalid. We plan to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva in response to the ANDA filing. By statute, if we initiate such a lawsuit against Teva within 45 days of receiving the notice letter, then the FDA would be automatically precluded from approving Teva's ANDA for 30 months (or such shorter or longer period as ordered by the court because either party failed to expedite the lawsuit), or until a district court decision finding the patents invalid or not infringed, whichever occurs earlier. Once the lawsuit is filed, the 30-month stay period will begin as of February 9, 2009, the date we were notified of the filing. A court or other agency with jurisdiction may find the patents that are the subject of the notice letter invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. Until the litigation commences and during the period in which such litigation is pending, the uncertainty of its outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in the litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final unappealable adverse result in the litigation will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with our ANDA litigation with Teva. 53 Table of Contents Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Revenues generated by products we currently market or that we successfully develop and for which we obtain regulatory approval depend on reimbursement from third-party payors such that if reimbursement for our products is reduced or is insufficient, there could be a negative impact on the utilization of the products that we market. Acceptable levels of reimbursement for costs of developing and manufacturing drug products and treatments related to those drug products by government authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations, such as HMOs, can have an effect on the successful commercialization of, and attracting collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our drug products and drug candidates. In both the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, legislative and regulatory actions can affect health care systems and reimbursement for products that we market. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, and its implementing regulations, altered the manner in which Medicare sets payment levels for many prescription drugs, including CUBICIN. Under this legislation, beginning in 2005, Medicare reimbursement for CUBICIN was based on average sales price, or ASP, rather than average wholesale price in both the physician office and hospital outpatient settings. This resulted in lower payment rates for CUBICIN. Moreover, under this payment methodology the payment rate for CUBICIN is set on a quarterly basis based upon the ASP for previous quarters, and significant downward fluctuations in such reimbursement rate could negatively affect sales of CUBICIN. In addition, further changes to this methodology are possible. Another action that may affect reimbursement related to our products involves a statutory requirement, and its implementing regulations, that Medicare may not make a higher payment for inpatient services that are caused by hospital acquired medical conditions arising after a patient is admitted to the hospital. Medicare pays for inpatient hospital services under a prospective payment system in which cases are grouped into Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Groups, or MS-DRGs, and the amount of the single Medicare payment depends upon the applicable MS-DRG. The MS-DRG can vary based on the condition of the patient. Under the statute, effective October 1, 2008, if a case would be assigned to a higher paying MS-DRG because of a specified condition that arose after admission to the hospital, so-called hospital acquired conditions, or HACs, the Medicare payment would remain at the lower paying MS-DRG that would have applied in the absence of such condition. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, is responsible for specifying the HACs to which this lower payment policy would apply. In July 2008, CMS issued a final rule which failed to establish MRSA as a HAC but stated that MRSA is addressed by the rule in situations where MRSA triggers another condition that is itself a HAC. Other conditions may be added as HACs in the future, including MRSA. As a result of this policy, in certain circumstances, hospitals may receive less reimbursement for Medicare patients that obtain a HAC which may be treated with CUBICIN. There have been a number of other legislative and regulatory actions affecting health care systems. The current uncertainty and the potential for adoption of additional changes could affect the timing and amount of our product revenue, our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. Medicare payments for CUBICIN can influence pricing in the non-Medicare market as third party payors may base their reimbursement on the Medicare rate. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our drug products. Any reduction in demand would adversely affect our business. If reimbursement is not available or is 54 Table of Contents available only at limited levels, we may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our commercialization of CUBICIN or any future drug products. We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under multiple subsequent amendments of that law. Sections 6001, 6002, and 6003 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, made significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug provisions of the Social Security Act. These changes include, but are not limited to, revising the definition of average manufacturer price, or AMP, establishing an obligation to report AMP on a monthly basis, in addition to a quarterly basis, establishing a new formula for calculating federal upper limits, or FULs, requiring rebates for certain physician-administered drugs, and clarifying rebate liability for authorized generic drugs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law as the larger of 15.1% of AMP or the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The rebate amount must be adjusted upward where the AMP for a product's first full quarter of sales, when adjusted for increases in the CPI-U, or Consumer Price Index—Urban, exceeds the AMP for the current quarter with the upward adjustment equal to the excess amount. The rebate amount is required to be recomputed each quarter based on our report of current AMP and best price for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The terms of our participation in the program imposes a requirement for us to report revisions to AMP or best price within a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item of false information in addition to other penalties available to the government. The availability of federal funds to pay for CUBICIN under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The 340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries. We also make our products available for purchase by authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, we are required to offer deeply discounted FSS contract pricing to four federal agencies—the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the Public Health Service (including the Indian Health Service)—for federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid program and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by those four federal agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four federal agencies must be equal to or less than the "Federal Ceiling Price," which is, at a minimum, 24% off the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, or "Non-FAMP", for the prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the VHC provides for civil monetary penalties of not to exceed $100,000 per false item of information in addition to other penalties available to the government. Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or future legislation may have a significant effect on our business. Our ability to successfully commercialize CUBICIN and any other products may depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available in the U.S. and worldwide from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by third party payors. 55 Table of Contents Third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as possible legislative changes to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Outside the U.S., certain countries set prices in connection with the regulatory process. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborators. Such prices may negatively impact our sales revenue in those countries. Our industry is highly regulated and our products are subject to ongoing regulatory review. Our company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including good manufacturing practices, or GMP, regulations, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. In addition, if there are any modifications to a drug product that we are developing or commercializing, further regulatory approval will be required. Other state and federal laws and regulations may also affect our ability to manufacture, market and ship our product and may be difficult or costly for us to comply with. These include state or federal legislation that in the future could require us or the third parties that we utilize to manufacture and supply our marketed products and product candidates to maintain an electronic pedigree or other similar tracking requirements on our marketed products or product candidates. If any changes to our product or the manufacturing process are required, we may have to seek approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies in order to comply with the new laws. Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval state or federal law, regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, result in fines, increased compliance expense, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug product, us or our manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug product from the market. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulation may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Competitors may develop drug products that make our drug products obsolete, less cost effective or otherwise less attractive to use. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies for treatment. Even if we are successful in developing effective drug products, new drug products introduced after we commence marketing of any drug product may be safer, more effective, less expensive or easier to administer than our drug products. 56 Table of Contents The way that we account for our operational and business activities is based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results, and new accounting pronouncements or guidance may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among others, those related to revenue recognition, investments, inventory, research and development expenses, purchase accounting, asset impairment, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based on our historical experience, our observance of trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. If actual results differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results and the performance of our stock. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, the SEC and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts, our financial statements and other public disclosure are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The pronouncements and interpretations of pronouncements by the FASB, the SEC and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to make changes in our accounting policies, including how we account for revenues and/or expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that have been accrued The preparation of our financial statements requires estimates of the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we determine our estimated liability for federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. and in many overseas jurisdictions. Our previous tax filings may be challenged by any of these taxing authorities and, in the event that we are not able to defend our position, we may incur unanticipated liabilities and such amounts could be significant. The jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation may enact or change laws that would adversely impact the rate at which we are taxed in future periods. Such actions could result in an additional income tax provision. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable "fraud and abuse" laws and regulations and other applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we sell CUBICIN and promote MERREM I.V., and a failure by us or AstraZeneca to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulation, including but not limited to, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program designed to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. AstraZeneca has retained certain rights related to the 57 Table of Contents commercialization of MERREM I.V., including pricing, distribution and contracting, and maintains a U.S. compliance program that is entirely independent of our compliance program. Any governmental or other actions brought against AstraZeneca with respect to the commercialization of MERREM I.V. could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully promote MERREM I.V. and could cause us to become subject to a similar action as the one brought against AstraZeneca. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials utilizing our products and drug candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The cost of any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Products liability litigation and other related proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Our use of hazardous materials, chemicals, microorganisms and radioactive compounds exposes us to potential liabilities. Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. Any such violation and the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine could adversely affect our operations. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or a determination of non-compliance, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines. If we are unable to adequately protect our confidential, electronically stored, transmitted and communicated information, it could significantly harm our business. In our business, we electronically store large amounts of scientific, technical, employee, customer and other data. The amount of confidential, digital information that we store and that we transmit and communicate to third parties continues to grow as technology continues to evolve. If we have inadequate security to protect this information from a breach and/or if such a breach should occur, crucial confidential information about our research, development, employees, customers and future prospects could be unintentionally disclosed. In addition, our information could be improperly disclosed if we are unable to restrict what third parties with whom we share such information may do with the information, or how long they may access it. If our competitors were able to acquire our confidential information, our business and future prospects could be harmed. 58 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: •the investment community's view of the revenue, financial and business projections we provide to the public, and whether we succeed or fail in meeting or exceeding these projections; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •an adverse result in the litigation that we intend to file against Teva to defend and/or assert our patents in connection with Teva's February 2009 notification to us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the patents covering CUBICIN; •additional third parties filing ANDAs with the FDA and the results of any litigation that we file to defend and/or assert our patents against such third parties; •failure of third party reporters of sales data to accurately report our sales figures; •adverse results or delays in our clinical trials; •our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; •our inability to obtain adequate product supply for clinical trials or for commercial supply of any drug candidate or approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; •difficulties or disputes in our collaborations, termination of a collaboration by us or our collaborator, or our inability to establish additional collaborations; •new legislation, laws or regulatory decisions that are adverse to us and/or our products; •safety concerns related to the use of CUBICIN or MERREM I.V.; •introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; •the announcements of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; •expectations in the financial markets that we may or may not be the target of potential acquirors; •our failure to develop or acquire additional drug candidates and commercialize additional drug products; •our failure to satisfy our obligations under our existing debt or loan agreements; •our issuance of additional debt or equity securities; •litigation, including stockholder or patent litigation; •the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community; •volatility in the markets unrelated to our business; and •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. 59 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would harm our business. If our officers, directors and certain stockholders choose to act together, they would be able to influence our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they collectively would have the ability to influence the election of all of our directors and to influence the outcome of some corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Several aspects of our corporate governance may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: •we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; •our stockholder rights plan is designed to cause substantial dilution to a person who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors; •our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of common stock; •our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the entire board from being replaced in any single year; and •advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully respond to the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and 60 Table of Contents •if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders. These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 