ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business, including those discussed below. Furthermore, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements. We refer you to our "Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on the continued commercial success of CUBICIN. For the foreseeable future, our ability to maintain and grow revenues will depend primarily on the commercial success of CUBICIN in the U.S., which depends upon our settlement with Teva and its affiliates withstanding any challenges by the FTC, the DOJ, or a competitor, customer or other third party, and upon CUBICIN's continued acceptance by the medical community and the future market demand and medical need for CUBICIN. CUBICIN is approved in the U.S. as a treatment for cSSSI and S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including those with RIE, caused by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates. We cannot be sure that CUBICIN will continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers for its approved indications in the U.S., particularly as the market into which CUBICIN is sold has grown only modestly, and economic problems persist, leading to increased efforts by hospitals and others to minimize expenditures by encouraging the purchase of lower-cost alternative therapies, including generic products like vancomycin, patients electing lower-cost alternative therapies due to increased out-of-pocket costs, patients choosing to have fewer elective surgeries and other procedures, and lower overall admissions to hospitals. CUBICIN also faces intense competition in the U.S. from a number of currently-approved antibiotic drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, including an inexpensive generic product in vancomycin and two recently approved drugs, one which was launched commercially in January 2011 by Forest. CUBICIN will likely in the future compete with other drugs that are currently in late-stage clinical development. 32 Table of Contents The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN in the U.S., and our ability to grow revenues from the sale of CUBICIN, depends on a number of additional factors, including those set forth below and the other CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section: •the continued safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived; •target organisms developing resistance to CUBICIN; •unanticipated adverse reactions to CUBICIN in patients; •maintaining prescribing information, also known as a label, that is substantially consistent with current prescribing information for CUBICIN in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold; •the rate of growth, if any, of the overall market into which CUBICIN is sold, including the market for products to treat MRSA skin and bloodstream infections; •the ability to maintain or increase the opportunities for our sales force to provide clinical information to those physicians who treat patients for whom CUBICIN would be appropriate, particularly in the face of increasing restrictions on sales professionals' access to physicians; •the ability to maintain and enforce U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN; •the ability to maintain and grow market share and vial sales as the price of CUBICIN increases in a market that has shown only modest growth; •the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived, compared to alternative therapies with respect to cost, availability of reimbursement, convenience, safety, efficacy and other factors; •whether the FTC, DOJ or a third party seeks to challenge and is successful in such challenge of our settlement agreement with Teva and its affiliates; •the impact on physicians' perception and use of CUBICIN as a result of recently-published guidelines for the treatment of MRSA infections by the Infectious Diseases Society of America; •the ability of our third-party manufacturers, including our single source provider of CUBICIN API and our two finished drug product suppliers, to manufacture, store, release and deliver sufficient quantities of CUBICIN in accordance with cGMPs and other requirements of the regulatory approvals for CUBICIN and to do so in accordance with a schedule to meet demand for our sales in the U.S. and for our supply obligations to our international CUBICIN distribution partners and to do so at an acceptable cost; •the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; •the level and scope of rebates, discounts, fees and other payments that we are required to pay or provide under federal government programs in the U.S., such as Medicare, Medicaid and the 340B/PHS drug pricing program; •future legislative and policy changes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold, including any additional health care reform, changes to the existing health care reform legislation, price controls or taxes on pharmaceutical sales, or adoption of a generic drug user fee act that would provide additional revenue to reduce the review time for ANDAs; •maintaining the level of fees and discounts payable to distributors and wholesalers who distribute CUBICIN at the same or similar levels; 33 Table of Contents •the cost containment efforts of hospitals, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, which often represents the top antibiotic expense for hospital pharmacies and is a significant cost to them; and •our ability to continue to successfully sell CUBICIN, begin selling ENTEREG and co-promote DIFICID in the U.S. using the same sales force, which has never commercialized three products at the same time. We market and sell CUBICIN in the U.S. through our own sales force and marketing team. Significant turnover or changes in the level of experience of our sales and marketing personnel, particularly our most senior sales and marketing personnel, could impact our ability to effectively sell and market CUBICIN and ENTEREG and co-promote DIFICID. As of December 31, 2011, CUBICIN had been approved or received an import license in more than 72 countries outside of the U.S. and is commercially available in 52 countries, including countries in the EU. Our partners may not be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets. For example, to date, EU sales have grown more slowly than U.S. sales did in the same period after launch due primarily to lower MRSA rates both in and outside the hospital in some EU countries, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S., the evolving commercialization strategy and mix of resources that our EU partner, Novartis, has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. Even if our international partners are successful in commercializing CUBICIN, we only receive a portion of the revenues from non-U.S. sales of CUBICIN. Beginning with our acquisition of Adolor in December 2011, we are also generating revenues from our sales of ENTEREG in the U.S., although such revenues are anticipated to be much lower than our CUBICIN revenues. Our ability to successfully sell ENTEREG depends on many of the same factors listed above that may impact our sales of CUBICIN, but as they relate to ENTEREG, including a potential ANDA challenge which could occur as early as May 2012 (see the next risk factor) and the following additional risks: •Our sales force has never sold ENTEREG before or any product for the indication for which ENTEREG is approved, bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis; •ENTEREG and our OIC product candidates are peripherally acting mu opioid receptor antagonists intended to mitigate the gastrointestinal side effects associated with acute postoperative or chronic (long-term) opioid pain management. If the use of drugs or techniques that reduce the requirement for opioid analgesics becomes more widespread, the market for ENTEREG and our OIC product candidates would decrease. For example, postoperative use of non-opioid analgesics (e.g. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, parenteral acetominophen) may reduce total opioid requirements. Novel analgesics which target other opioid receptor subtypes, non-opioid receptors or pain pathways are under development that may, if approved, compete with mu opioid analgesics for acute or chronic pain management. If these analgesics significantly reduce the use of more traditional opioid analgesics, it would have a negative impact on the potential market for ENTEREG and our OIC product candidates; and •ENTEREG was approved by the FDA subject to a REMS and the product labeling carries a boxed warning that ENTEREG is available only for short-term (15 doses) use in hospitalized patients, consistent with the approved indication. The REMS is designed to maintain the benefits associated with short-term use in the bowel resection population and prevent long-term, outpatient use. Under the REMS, ENTEREG is available only to hospitals that perform bowel resection surgeries and that are enrolled in the E.A.S.E. program. If we were to provide ENTEREG to a hospital that is not enrolled in the E.A.S.E. program, we could face sanctions from the FDA. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of CUBICIN, ENTEREG or our product candidates and research technologies. CUBICIN Patents. The primary composition of matter patent covering CUBICIN in the U.S. has expired. We own or have licensed rights to a limited number of patents directed toward methods of administration, methods of treatment and methods of manufacture of CUBICIN, as well as a patent covering CUBICIN produced by certain processes. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted to us or to our international licensors or collaborators with respect to any of our or their pending patent applications for CUBICIN. Of particular concern for a company like ours that is dependent primarily upon one product, which in our case is CUBICIN, to generate revenues and profits, is that third parties may seek to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing an ANDA with the FDA, in which they claim that patents protecting CUBICIN, owned or licensed by us and listed with the FDA in the Orange Book, are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In February 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter from Hospira notifying us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA, seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN. Hospira's notice letter advised that it is seeking FDA approval to market daptomycin for injection prior to the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,468,967 and 6,852,689, which expire on September 24, 2019, U.S. Patent No. RE39,071, which expires on June 15, 2016, U.S. Patent No. 8,058,238, which expires on November 28, 2020, and U.S. Patent No. 8,003,673, which expires on September 4, 2028. Each of these patents is listed in the Orange Book. The notice letter further stated that Hospira is asserting that claims in the referenced patents are invalid, and/or not infringed, and/or unenforceable. We plan to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Hospira in response to the ANDA filing. By statute, if we initiate such a lawsuit within 45 days of receiving the notice letter, the FDA would be automatically precluded from approving Hospira's ANDA for 30 months (or such shorter or longer period as ordered by the court because either party failed to expedite the lawsuit), or until a district court decision finding the patents invalid or not infringed, whichever occurs earlier. Once the lawsuit is filed, the 30-month stay period will begin as of the date we were notified of the filing. A court or other agency with jurisdiction may find the patents that are the subject of the notice letter invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. Until this is finally resolved, the uncertainty of the outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in any litigation, whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final unappealable adverse result in litigation will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. In April 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with Teva and its affiliates to resolve our patent infringement litigation with respect to CUBICIN. We originally filed the patent infringement lawsuit in March 2009 in response to the February 9, 2009, notification to us by Teva that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN. The settlement agreement provides for a full settlement and release by both us and Teva of all claims that were or could have been asserted in the patent infringement litigation and all resulting damages or other remedies. Under the settlement agreement, we granted Teva a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to sell a generic daptomycin for injection product in the U.S. beginning on the later of (i) December 24, 2017, and (ii) if our daptomycin for injection product receives pediatric exclusivity, June 24, 2018. The license we granted to Teva would become effective prior to the later of these two dates if the patents that were the subject of the patent litigation with Teva are held invalid, unenforceable or not infringed with respect to a third party's generic version of daptomycin for injection, if a third party sells a generic version of daptomycin for injection under a license or other authorization from us, or if there are no longer any unexpired patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book as applying to our NDA covering CUBICIN. The license is granted under the patents that were the subject of the litigation, any other patents listed in the Orange Book as applying to Cubist's NDA covering CUBICIN, and any other U.S. patents that we have the right to license and that cover Teva's generic version of daptomycin for injection. The license terminates upon the expiration, or an unappealed or unappealable determination of invalidity or unenforceability, of all the licensed patents, 35 Table of Contents including any pediatric or other exclusivity relating to the licensed patents or CUBICIN. Two of the three patents that were the subject of the litigation are currently due to expire on September 24, 2019, and the third is due to expire on June 15, 2016. In September 2011, we listed in the Orange Book under our NDA covering CUBICIN another patent, U.S. Patent 8,003,673, which was granted on August 23, 2011, and expires on September 4, 2028. In December 2011, we listed U.S. Patent 8,058,238 covering CUBICIN (granted on November 15, 2011, and expiring on November 28, 2020) in the Orange Book under our NDA. Teva may also sell the daptomycin for injection supplied by CUBICIN upon specified types of "at risk" launches of a generic daptomycin for injection product by a third party. The settlement agreement will remain in effect until the expiration of the term of the license granted by us to Teva and the expiration of a non-exclusive royalty-free license granted by Teva to us under any Teva U.S. patent rights that Teva has the right to license and that may be applicable to CUBICIN and the daptomycin for injection product to be supplied by us to Teva. Each of Cubist and Teva may terminate the settlement agreement in the event of a material breach by the other party. In addition, each party may terminate the license granted by it to the other party in the event of a challenge of the licensed patents by the other party. If this license becomes effective, or the license or settlement agreement terminates for the reasons stated in this paragraph, earlier than we anticipate, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. In addition, the FTC or the DOJ could seek to challenge our settlement with Teva, or a competitor, customer or other third-party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlement with Teva. While we believe our settlement is lawful, we may not prevail in any such challenges or litigation, in which case the other party might obtain injunctive relief, remedial relief, or such other relief as a court may order. In any event, we may incur significant costs in the event of an investigation or in defending any such action and our business and results of operations could be materially impacted if we fail to prevail against any such challenges. ENTEREG Patents. ENTEREG is protected by three U.S. Patents listed in the Orange Book. Two of these U.S. patents are licensed to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Adolor, from Eli Lilly. One of these licensed U.S. patents covers the alvimopan compound in ENTEREG and methods for binding a peripheral opioid receptor. This patent expires on March 29, 2016, including a five year patent term extension from the PTO. The second licensed U.S. patent covers the formulation of alvimopan in ENTEREG and methods for binding a peripheral opioid receptor, and expires on December 8, 2013. The ENTEREG product is also protected by a U.S. patent owned by us claiming the use of ENTEREG in methods for treating or preventing ileus, and expires November 29, 2020. Cubist recently received an additional U.S. patent, expiring July 31, 2030, that covers certain methods of treating patients in hospitals with ENTEREG within the existing E.A.S.E. program. In addition to the Orange Book listed patents covering ENTEREG and methods of treatment with ENTEREG, we have five years of NCE exclusivity for ENTEREG that expires on May 20, 2013. The NCE exclusivity prevents the submission to the FDA of any ANDA for any pharmaceutical product containing alvimopan, the API in ENTEREG, until May 20, 2013, or May 20, 2012, if the ANDA applicant certifies that the patents covering ENTEREG are invalid or will not be infringed by the ANDA product. If such a filing is made, we may need to defend and/or assert our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. In any of these types of proceedings, a court or other agency with jurisdiction may find our patents invalid, not infringed and/or unenforceable. If we are unable to prevail in such a proceeding, our revenues for sales of ENTEREG will be negatively impacted. General Proprietary Rights. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN and U.S. patent protection for ENTEREG, our drug candidates, and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third-party challenges, including with respect to generic challenges or 36 Table of Contents our partners or collaborators doing the same for partnerships or collaborations under which we rely on our partner's or collaborator's proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that our patents and patent applications, including our own and those that we have rights under licenses from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including, without limitation to the following: •the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions; •the actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country; •the laws of foreign countries in which we market our drug products may afford little or no effective protection to our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors' ability to compete with us in such countries; •intellectual property laws and regulations and legal standards relating to the validity, scope and enforcement of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing and changing, both in the U.S. and in other important markets outside the U.S.; •because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that the named applicants or inventors of the subject matter covered by our patent applications or patents, whether directly owned by us or licensed to us, were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions and if such named applicants or inventors were not the first to invent or file, our ability to protect our rights in technologies that underlie such patent applications may be limited; •third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us; and •the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and, as a consequence, our and our partners' patent applications may result in patents with narrower coverage than we desire. The patents or the unpatented proprietary technology we hold or have rights to may not be commercially useful in protecting CUBICIN, ENTEREG or our product candidates. Even if we have valid and enforceable patents, these patents still may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competing products or processes. If our licensors, collaborators or consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Such inventions and/or processes will not necessarily become our property but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. We have and may in the future engage in collaborations, sponsored research agreements, and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions that have received and may receive funding from U.S. government agencies. As a result of these arrangements, the U.S. government or certain third parties may have rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations and agreements as required by law or by such agreements. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our manufacturing and product development activities. To the extent that we maintain a competitive advantage by relying on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary information, such competitive advantage may be 37 Table of Contents compromised if others independently develop the same or similar technology, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary information in part through confidentiality provisions and invention assignment provisions in agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements could be invalidated or breached and we might not have adequate remedies. Our trademarks, CUBICIN, ENTEREG and Cubist, in the aggregate are considered to be material to our business. These trademarks are covered by registrations or pending applications for registration in the PTO and in other countries. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. The trademark protection that we have pursued or will pursue in the future may not afford us commercial protection. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN, ENTEREG and other products and product candidates that we are promoting and developing. CUBICIN and ENTEREG. We do not have the capability to manufacture our own API or finished drug product for CUBICIN or ENTEREG. We contract with ACSD to manufacture and supply us with CUBICIN API for commercial purposes in the U.S. and in order to allow us to fulfill our obligations to supply our international CUBICIN partners. ACSD is our sole provider of our commercial supply of CUBICIN API worldwide. Our CUBICIN API must be stored in a temperature-controlled environment. ACSD currently stores some CUBICIN API at its facilities in Italy. In order to offset the risk of a single-source API supplier, we currently hold a supply of safety stock of API in addition to what is stored at ACSD at the Integrated Commercialization Solutions, or ICS, warehouse/distribution center in Kentucky. Any disaster at the facilities where we hold this safety stock, such as a fire or loss of power, that causes a loss of this safety stock would heighten the risk that we face, especially from having only one supplier of API for CUBICIN. ACSD recently completed the process of expanding and making certain improvements to its CUBICIN API manufacturing facility to increase production capacity, so we have only been receiving product from the updated facility for a short period of time. We cannot be certain that production from the updated facility will continue to go smoothly or that the updated facility will be able to produce CUBICIN API in the volumes that we anticipated from this expansion. For ENTEREG, we rely on two suppliers who are approved to manufacture and supply us with ENTEREG API for commercial purposes in the U.S. We contract with both Hospira Worldwide and Oso to manufacture and supply to us finished CUBICIN drug product for our use in the U.S. and our international partners' use in other markets outside the U.S. Taking the CUBICIN API and turning it into finished drug product is a complex, carefully-specified process. For ENTEREG, we rely on two suppliers who are approved to manufacture and supply us with finished ENTEREG drug product for our use in the U.S. If our API and finished product manufacturers (in particular, ACSD because they are our sole CUBICIN API supplier), experience any significant difficulties in their respective manufacturing processes, including any difficulties with their raw materials or supplies or any delays in obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals in connection with changes to their respective manufacturing processes, if they have significant problems with their businesses, including lack of capacity, whether as a result of the constrained credit and financial markets or otherwise, if they experience staffing difficulties or slow-downs in their systems, including extended periods where any of these manufacturers may need to shut down their facilities for scheduled maintenance or otherwise, if they are unable to successfully manufacture CUBICIN or ENTEREG API or finished drug product in accordance with cGMPs and the specified procedures mandated by regulatory requirements, if they fail, for any other reason, including because of competing demands from other customers, to deliver CUBICIN or ENTEREG API or finished drug product to us in order to meet demand for our sales in the U.S. and for our supply obligations to our international CUBICIN distribution partners, or if our relationship with any 38 Table of Contents of these manufacturers terminates, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN or ENTEREG. Any such supply interruptions could impair our ability to supply CUBICIN or ENTEREG at levels to meet U.S. market demand or to satisfy our contractual obligations to supply our international CUBICIN partners, which could, particularly with respect to U.S. sales of CUBICIN, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because of the significant U.S. and international regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify a new API or finished drug product supplier, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN or ENTEREG if we needed to transfer the manufacture of CUBICIN or ENTEREG API or the finished drug product to one or more other suppliers in an effort to address these or any other difficulties with our current suppliers. Because the ACSD manufacturing facilities are located in Italy and the Hospira Worldwide and Oso product finishing facilities are located in the U.S, we must ship CUBICIN API to the U.S. for finishing, packaging and labeling. Each shipment of CUBICIN API is of significant value. While in transit to the U.S., stored at ICS or in transit to our finished product manufacturers, our CUBICIN API must be stored in a strictly temperature-controlled environment and could be lost or become adulterated. Depending on when in this process the API is lost or adulterated, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of CUBICIN API or CUBICIN finished product due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability, particularly if any of such events took place in Italy where ACSD is located or at the facilities that produce and store CUBICIN API or finished product. Other Products and Product Candidates. Under our agreement with Optimer for DIFICID, we do not have the capability to manufacture and supply DIFICID ourselves. Any interruption in supply of DIFICID would likely cause us to fail to generate the revenues that we expect from our co-promotion of DIFICID. In addition, if the third-party suppliers of our pipeline products fail to supply us with sufficient quantities of bulk or finished products to meet our development needs, our development of these products could be stopped, delayed or impeded. Reliance on third-party suppliers also entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products or product candidates ourselves, including reliance, in part, on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, and some aspects of product release. We also rely on third-party suppliers for raw materials and key intermediates used in connection with manufacture of our product candidates and any failure to supply in sufficient quantities could negatively impact development of such product candidates. Our third-party suppliers may not be able to comply with cGMP requirements in the U.S. or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. Failure of our third-party suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in their inability to continue supplying us in a timely manner and could also be the basis for sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, suspension of manufacture, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our financial performance. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, will likely face additional competition in the future from third-party drug candidates under development, and may face competition in the future from generic versions of CUBICIN. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, such as larger research and development staffs, larger and more experienced sales and marketing organizations, and greater manufacturing capabilities. 39 Table of Contents Our competitors may develop, acquire or license on an exclusive basis technologies and drug products that are safer, easier to administer, more effective, or less costly than CUBICIN, ENTEREG or any drug candidate that we may have or develop, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. If price competition inhibits the continued acceptance of CUBICIN, if physicians prefer other drug products over CUBICIN, or if physicians switch to new drug products or choose to reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Competition in the market for therapeutic products that address serious Gram-positive bacterial infections, in which CUBICIN competes, is intense. The competitive landscape for CUBICIN, ENTEREG and DIFICID are discussed in the "Competition" section in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any inability on our part to compete with current or subsequently introduced drug products, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We need to manage our growth and the increased breadth of our activities effectively and the ways that we have chosen, or may choose, to manage this growth may expose us to additional risk. We have expanded the scope of our business significantly in recent years, having recently added ENTEREG as a product that we are selling, having added DIFICID as a product that we are co-promoting with Optimer, having acquired and in-licensed several product candidates and having progressed pre-clinical and multiple clinical stage product candidates. We initiated Phase 3 clinical trials of CXA-201 as a potential treatment for cUTI and cIAI in 2011 and expect to initiate Phase 3 clinical trials of CXA-201 for HAPB and VAPB in 2012. We currently expect to initiate Phase 3 clinical trials of CB-5945 as a potential treatment for chronic OIC in 2012. In contrast to the end of 2010, when we had one product, CUBICIN, that we were selling in the U.S. and no product candidates that had reached Phase 3 clinical trials, we are currently selling two products on our own, co-promoting a third product in the U.S. and have three late-stage product candidates. As a result, our expanded breadth of activities has been and is expected to continue taking up increasing time and attention of our business. We also have grown our employee base substantially, particularly in research and development and sales. We plan to continue adding products and drug candidates through internal development, in-licensing and acquisition over the next several years and to continue developing our existing drug candidates that demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety to advance into and through clinical trials. Our ability to develop and grow the commercialization of our products, achieve our research and development objectives, add and integrate new products, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration and acquisition agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization and infrastructure to accommodate additional anticipated growth. To manage the existing and planned future growth and the increasing breadth and complexity of our activities, including the integration of our recently consummated acquisition of Adolor, we will need to continue building our organization and making significant additional investments in personnel, infrastructure, information management systems and resources. As we advance our product candidates through development, the size and scope of the clinical trials we conduct increase significantly, including increases in the number of patients, types of medical conditions being studied, clinical sites and number of countries where the trials will be implemented. Additionally, these trials also have risks associated with the increasing trial design complexity related to both generating data relevant to the clinical settings in various countries and aligning them with the guidance of various regulatory bodies that will permit the approval of our product candidates in those countries. The latter has associated risks since clinical practices vary in the global setting and there is a lack of harmonization between the guidance provided by various regulatory bodies of different regions and countries. At a trial implementation level, we accommodate some of this increased global clinical development activity through increased utilization of vendors, such as our increasing use of CROs, 40 Table of Contents contract investigational drug labeling and distribution providers, and regional and central laboratories to help manage operational aspects of our clinical trials, rather than addressing capacity demands through internal growth. As a result, many key operational aspects of our clinical trial process, which is integral to our business, have been and will be out of our direct control. If the CROs and other third parties that we rely on for patient enrollment and other support services related to portions of our clinical trials fail to perform these clinical trials in a timely and satisfactory manner and in compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, we could face significant delays in completing our clinical trials, or we may be unable to rely in the future on the clinical data generated. These clinical investigators, CROs and other vendors may not carry out their contractual duties or obligations, they may fail to meet expected deadlines, or the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain may be compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons. If these, or other problems occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, we may be required to repeat one or more of our clinical trials and we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. If we are unable to effectively manage and progress some or all of these activities, our ability to maximize the value of one or more of our products or product candidates could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business. In general, we may not select the optimal balance between growing internally and increasing our use of outside vendors. On the one hand, too much relative internal growth could end up costing us more in recruiting, hiring and infrastructure expansion, such as our expanded laboratory space, and could lead to underutilized employees and space if we do not grow our business as much or as quickly as expected. On the other hand, too much relative use of vendors could end up costing us more in negotiating and administering contracts and in vendor fees, and the ensuing relationships give us less control over projects that are important to our business and could result in disputes with the vendors if the relationships do not progress as one or the other of us anticipated. In addition, outsourcing work to vendors leaves us exposed to the risk that changes in their business or financial condition could cause them to no longer be able to support our business, the impact of which could delay key projects and initiatives and therefore adversely impact the timing and achievement of our business goals. Our long-term strategy is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical, sales and other personnel. In order to induce highly qualified and performing employees to remain at Cubist, we provide competitive compensation packages, including stock options and restricted stock units, or RSUs, that vest over time. In the future, we expect to continue providing competitive compensation packages, including stock options, RSUs or other equity incentives to attract and retain employees. The value to employees of these equity-based incentives, particularly stock options, is significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we have limited control over and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. We also have provided retention letters to our executive officers and certain other key employees. Despite our efforts to retain highly qualified and performing employees, members of our management, scientific, medical and sales teams, including some senior members, have in the past and may in the future terminate their employment with us. The failure to attract and retain our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business and financial results. Our long-term strategy is dependent upon successfully discovering, obtaining, developing and commercializing product candidates. We have made significant investments in research and development and have, over the past few years, increased our research and development workforce. However, we have only had a limited 41 Table of Contents number of our internally-discovered product candidates, including CB-315 and CB-625, reach the clinical development stage. We cannot assure you that we will reach this stage for any additional internally-discovered drug candidates or that there will be clinical benefits supporting the further advancement demonstrated by these or any other drug candidates that we do initiate or advance in clinical trials. Except for CB-315, all of our drug candidates that have progressed to or beyond Phase 2 clinical trials, including CUBICIN, were not internally developed. We obtained the rights to these drugs through the in-licensing or acquisition of patents, patent rights, product candidates and/or technologies from third parties. These types of activities represent a significant expense, as they generally require us to pay upfront payments, development and commercialization milestone payments and royalties on product sales to other parties. In addition, we may structure our in-licensing arrangements as cost and profit sharing arrangements, in which case we would share development and commercialization costs, as well as any resulting profits, with a third party. We may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional desirable drug candidates or marketed drug products on acceptable terms or at all. In fact, we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products from a variety of other companies with interest in the anti-infective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more experience than we have in pharmaceutical development and sales and significantly more financial resources than we have. Because of the intense competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such candidates and products has grown dramatically in recent years and are often at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. Such competition and higher prices are most pronounced for late-stage candidates and marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our financial performance. If we need additional capital to fund our acquisition, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to a drug candidate or marketed product, we would need to seek financing by borrowing funds or through the capital markets. Given the current state of the financial and credit markets, it may be difficult for us to acquire the capital that we would need at an acceptable cost. If we are unable to discover or acquire additional promising candidates or to develop successfully the candidates we have, we will not be able to implement our business strategy. Even if we succeed in discovering or acquiring drug candidates, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing them or any of our current candidates, particularly in new therapeutic areas in which we may have little or no direct development experience, and achieve approval for use in humans, that they can be manufactured economically, that they can be successfully commercialized or that they will be widely accepted in the marketplace. Because of the long development timelines and the fact that most drug candidates that make it into clinical development are not ultimately approved for commercialization, none of the drug candidates that we currently are developing would generate revenues for several years, if at all. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future drug candidates to market or to acquire or obtain other rights to any additional marketed drug products, this could have a material adverse effect on our long term business, operating results and financial condition and our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited. We have undertaken and may in the future undertake strategic acquisitions, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. As noted above, one of the ways we intend to grow our pipeline and business is through acquisitions. We have limited experience in acquiring businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of particular risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; and uncertainty about 42 Table of Contents the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because the price paid for acquiring businesses often exceeds the book value of the acquired company, the successful realization of value from an acquisition typically derives from capitalizing on synergies between the acquiror and acquiree. If we are unable to realize such synergies, we may not be able to justify the price paid for such an acquisition. Also, in paying for acquisitions and/or funding the development and commercialization of drug products that we acquire through acquisitions, we may deplete our cash resources or need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness, and we may not be able to raise such funds on favorable or desirable terms or at all, especially if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation of an acquired product or business may turn out to be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to have overvalued an acquisition target. In addition, the accounting effect of the acquisition may be different than what we had anticipated. We also may have to adjust certain aspects of the accounting for acquisitions, such as goodwill, in-process research and development, or IPR&D, other intangible assets and contingent consideration over time as events or circumstances occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring businesses with promising drug candidates if we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize such drug candidates. As a result, we cannot assure you that, following any current or future acquisitions, including our recently consummated acquisition of Adolor, we will achieve revenues that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. The FDA and other competent authorities worldwide may change their approval requirements or policies for antibiotics or other products, or apply interpretations to their requirements or policies, in a manner that could delay, increase development costs or prevent commercialization of our antibiotic or other product candidates. Antibiotics. Regulatory requirements for the approval of antibiotics in the U.S. and other countries may change in a manner that requires us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials and/or impose more stringent requirements, which would increase development costs and may delay or prevent commercialization of our antibiotic product candidates. Historically, the FDA has not required placebo-controlled clinical trials for approval of antibiotics but instead has relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic treatment, and it must be shown that the product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment by a defined margin. In October 2007, the FDA issued draft guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies to support approval of antibiotics. Under this draft guidance, the FDA recommended that for some antibiotic indications, sponsor companies carefully consider study designs other than non-inferiority, such as placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo. In November 2008, an FDA Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee, or AIDAC, concluded that non-inferiority trials are acceptable for cSSSI indications and that a 10% non-inferiority margin may be acceptable if certain abscess types of cSSSI infections are excluded and the antibiotic provides safety, cost, or antimicrobial benefits. In August 2010, the FDA issued draft guidance on drug development for acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections, or ABSSSI, in which the agency confirmed that non-inferiority trials are acceptable to support serious skin infection indications but did not specify what non-inferiority margin should be used. In October 2010, the FDA approved Teflaro for treatment of ABSSSI based on a pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 10% against standard therapy in the product's Phase 3 clinical studies. Although this approval may provide some indication of the FDA's approach, the lack of clear guidance from the FDA concerning the appropriate non-inferiority margin and, more particularly, to which study end point this should be applied, has created uncertainty about 43 Table of Contents the standards for approval of antibiotics in the U.S. In November 2010, the FDA also issued a final guidance on the use of non-inferiority trials to support the approval of antibacterial drugs. Although this guidance provides no further information on the acceptable range of non-inferiority margins, the FDA suggests that, in light of the final guidance, companies should re-evaluate non-inferiority study protocols previously reviewed. In November 2010, the FDA also released draft guidance for nosocomial pneumonia (now referred to by the FDA as HABP and VABP) and is currently considering updating its guidance for cIAI and cUTI. Our plan is to seek approval for CXA-201 for the treatment of HABP and VABP in the U.S. and EU. Based on discussions at a recent AIDAC, we intend to discuss our proposed study design with the FDA in the first half of 2012. This will provide some direction on the viability of our current or appropriately revised plan to run Phase 3 trials for CXA-201 for HABP or VABP in order to seek approval for these indications in the U.S. Ongoing, outstanding issues with the viability of HABP or VABP studies could delay the completion of the trials and significantly increase our development costs. In addition, non-inferiority studies have come under scrutiny from Congress, in part because of a congressional investigation as to the safety of Ketek®, an antibiotic approved by the FDA on the basis of non-inferiority studies. The increased scrutiny by Congress and regulatory authorities may significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, as well as impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing requirements with respect to antibiotics. The factors described above could increase our development costs or delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates that we are developing or may seek to develop, such as CXA-201 and CB-315. This would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any consequences that the evolving FDA approach has for CUBICIN or any of the antibiotic product candidates that we are developing or may seek to develop may also be reflected in the approach adopted towards these products by the competent authorities in other countries. Furthermore, differing regulatory approval requirements in different countries complicates our ability to conduct unified global trials, which can lead to increased development costs and marketing delays or non-viability. Mu Opioid Products. There is currently no formal FDA guidance relevant to our mu opioid antagonist product candidate, CB-5945, which we are developing for the treatment of chronic OIC. Given the lack of formal guidance, we will need to agree with the FDA on the appropriate clinical trials required for approval. We may not be able to agree upon a viable Phase 3 trial design in order to seek approval in the U.S. In addition, the FDA or regulatory agencies in other countries may change the requirements for the approval of mu opioid antagonists in the U.S. and/or impose more stringent requirements, which would increase development costs and may delay or prevent commercialization of CB-5945. We have collaborative and other similar types of relationships that expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate continuing to enter into, collaborative and other types of contractual arrangements, which we refer to as collaborations, with multiple third parties to discover, test, develop, manufacture, market and promote drug candidates and drug products. For example, we have agreements with several pharmaceutical companies, including a Novartis subsidiary, AstraZeneca AB and a Merck subsidiary, to develop and commercialize CUBICIN outside the U.S.; we have a collaboration with Optimer to co-promote DIFICID in the U.S.; we have a collaboration with Hydra to develop compounds that target the TRPA1 receptor, which is believed to have an important role in pain management; and we have collaborations with respect to certain of our pre-clinical candidates. Collaborations such as these are necessary for us to research, develop, and commercialize drug candidates. 44 Table of Contents In order for existing and future collaborations to be successful, we need to be able to work successfully with our collaborators or their successors. If not, these arrangements likely would be unsuccessful and/or terminate early. In addition, factors external to our collaborations, such as patent coverage, regulatory developments or market dynamics can impact each collaboration. Reliance on collaborations poses a number of risks to our business including the following: •other than the rights we have by contract, the focus, direction, amount and timing of resources dedicated by our CUBICIN international distributors to their efforts to develop and commercialize CUBICIN is not under our control, which may result in less successful commercialization of CUBICIN in our partners' territories than if we had control over the CUBICIN franchise in these territories; •our CUBICIN international partners may not perform their contractual obligations, including appropriate and timely reporting on adverse events in their territories, as expected; •Optimer may not provide the level of support that it is required to provide under our agreement with respect to DIFICID or may not support our co-promotion of DIFICID to the degree that we would like, leading us to receive lower than expected revenues from this collaboration; •we may be dependent upon other collaborators to manufacture and supply drug product in order to develop and/or commercialize the drug product that is the subject of the collaboration, as we are with Optimer for DIFICID, and our collaborators may encounter unexpected issues or delays in manufacturing and/or supplying such drug product; •in situations where we and our collaborator share decision-making power with respect to development of the product, we and our collaborator may not agree on decisions that could affect the development, regulatory approval, manufacture or commercial viability of the product; •in situations where we and our collaborator are sharing the costs of development, our collaborators may not have the funds to contribute to their share of the costs of the collaboration; •disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation, commercial terms, the level of efforts being utilized to develop or commercialize product candidates that are the subject of a particular collaboration, or the preferred course of development or commercialization strategy might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates or products that we are marketing, such as DIFICID, lead to additional responsibilities with respect to drug candidates or marketed products, or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would be time-consuming and expensive and could cause disruptions in the collaborative nature of these relationships, which could impede the success of our endeavors; •we may fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to our partners, including obligations to supply our international CUBICIN partners with finished CUBICIN drug product, and certain failures to satisfy such obligations could subject us to claims for damages by our partners or allow a partner to terminate our agreement; •some drug candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own drug candidates or drug products, which may lead them to reduce their effort on the drug candidates or drug products on which we are collaborating with them; •the protection of proprietary rights, including patent rights, for the technology underlying the drug products we license may be under the control of our collaborators and therefore our ability to control the patent protection of the drug product may be limited; 45 Table of Contents •some of our collaborators might develop independently, or with others, drug products that compete with ours; and •our collaborators could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could cause them to de-prioritize their efforts on our collaboration. Collaborations with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish and successfully maintain such arrangements on terms favorable to us or to work successfully with our collaborators or third parties with whom we have similar arrangements, for the reasons stated above or others, will have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our investments are subject to risks which could result in losses. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds, and money market instruments. All of these investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. These risks have been heightened in today's tightened and fluctuating credit and financial markets. Such risks, including the failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investments in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses or fail to increase our profit. Despite our recent sustained profitability, we may have lower levels of profitability or incur operating losses in future periods as a result of, among other things, revenues growing more slowly or declining, increased spending on the development of our drug candidates or investments in product opportunities. Lower levels of profitability and/or operating losses may negatively impact our stock price and could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We may require additional funds, and we do not know if additional funds would be available to us at all, or on terms that we find acceptable, particularly if the financial and credit markets are constrained at the time we require funding. In October 2010, we closed the issuance of $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes due November 2017, or 2.50% Notes. We used a portion of the proceeds from the offering of the 2.50% Notes to repurchase, in privately negotiated transactions, approximately $190.8 million of the principal amount of the $300.0 million aggregate outstanding principal amount of our 2.25% convertible subordinated notes due June 2013, or 2.25% Notes. Despite the net proceeds that we realized from the offering of the 2.50% Notes, we may be required to seek additional funds in the future due to economic and strategic factors. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, develop our existing and any newly-acquired drug candidates, actively seek to acquire companies with marketed products or product candidates, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates, expand our research and development activities and infrastructure, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond our control. In addition, if not repurchased, redeemed or converted earlier, the remaining $109.2 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.25% Notes will become due in June 2013 and the $450.0 million of aggregate principal amount of the 2.50% Notes will become due in November 2017. Other than our $90.0 million credit facility with RBS Citizens National Association, or RBS Citizens, we have no other committed sources of capital and do 46 Table of Contents not know whether additional financing will be available when and if needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to our stockholders or us, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders would result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors or lenders may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be on acceptable or affordable terms, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. Our annual debt service obligations on our outstanding 2.25% Notes, after taking into account our repurchase of approximately $190.8 million of the principal amount of such notes, are approximately $2.5 million per year in interest payments, and our annual debt service obligations on our 2.50% Notes are approximately $11.3 million per year in interest payments. We may add additional lease lines to finance capital expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We may also be forced to obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights to CUBICIN or our product candidates in certain markets or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain additional capital when we need it, we will not be able to execute our current business plan successfully. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly once we utilize our remaining federal and state net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate (sometimes referred to as "book tax"). These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock-based compensation, the accounting for business combinations, including accounting for contingent consideration, changes in tax laws and rates, the tax impact of existing or future health care reform, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets, and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our provision for income tax resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could affect our results of operations, including our net income. The effect on our results of operations may impact, or be perceived to impact, our financial condition and may therefore cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to Our Industry Patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our products or processes could result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts for such products. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and interference and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property 47 Table of Contents rights. The types of situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings include the risks set forth elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •if, in addition to Hospira, third parties file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of our products prior to the earlier of expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by us or the date Teva is allowed to launch a generic version of CUBICIN under our settlement agreement with Teva and its affiliates, we may need to defend our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement, as we did in the Teva litigation that we recently settled; •we or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce patent rights; •we or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties' patents; •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; •if our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we or our collaborators may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention of such technology; and •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our brand names infringe their trademarks, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings. In February 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter from Hospira notifying us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA, seeking approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN. Hospira's notice letter advised that it is seeking FDA approval to market daptomycin for injection prior to the expiration of each of the Orange Book patents which protect CUBICIN. The patents expire between June 2016 and September 2028. The notice letter further stated that Hospira is asserting that claims in the referenced patents are invalid, and/or not infringed, and/or unenforceable. We plan to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Hospira in response to the ANDA filing. By statute, if we initiate such a lawsuit within 45 days of receiving the notice letter, the FDA would be automatically precluded from approving Hospira's ANDA for 30 months (or such shorter or longer period as ordered by the court because either party failed to expedite the lawsuit), or until a district court decision finding the patents invalid or not infringed, whichever occurs earlier. Once the lawsuit is filed, the 30-month stay period will begin as of the date we were notified of the filing. An adverse outcome in any litigation, including any litigation with Hospira, or other proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology that is at issue or to license the technology from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. For the reasons stated in this "Risk Factors" section above regarding the possibility that we may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect our proprietary rights, our stock price may decline. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of similar litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. 48 Table of Contents Revenues generated by our commercialized products, CUBICIN and ENTEREG, and products which we may commercialize in the future depend on reimbursement from third-party payors. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of CUBICIN, ENTEREG and any future drug product we may market are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal governments, including Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, and private insurance plans. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if these third-party payors do not sufficiently cover and reimburse the cost of CUBICIN or ENTEREG, related procedures or services, or any other future drug product we may market. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for CUBICIN or ENTEREG, or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, CUBICIN or ENTEREG may be too costly for general use, and physicians may prescribe them less frequently. In this manner, levels of reimbursement for drug products by government authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations, such as managed care organizations, or MCOs, are likely to have an effect on the successful commercialization of DIFICID, which we co-promote, and our ability to attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of our product candidates. In both the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, legislative and regulatory actions, including but not limited to the Medicaid rebate program, Medicare Parts A, B and D, 340B/PHS drug pricing programs and the VHC Act pricing program impact the revenues that we derive from CUBICIN, as discussed above under the heading "Government Regulation" in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to these existing legislative and regulatory mandates, future legislation or regulatory actions altering these mandates or imposing new ones may have a significant effect on our business. In the U.S. and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, legislative and regulatory actions and proposals to control and reduce health care costs, including those that use financial rewards or penalties to incentivize cost reductions and increase the quality of patient care. Some of these measures can directly impact the level of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Others can directly change the discounts required to be provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers to government payors. Still others can reduce the level of reimbursement for health care services and other non-drug items; such measures could indirectly impact demand for pharmaceutical products because they can cause payors and providers to apply heightened scrutiny and/or austerity actions to their entire operations, including pharmacy budgets. In response to certain legal actions and business pressures, both government payors (e.g., state Medicaid programs) and private payors have begun to move away from drug reimbursement based on average wholesale price. An increasing number of payors are instead adopting reimbursement based on new measures, such as ASP, AMP and Actual Acquisition Cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates, and CMS has stated its intention to begin making pharmacy National Average Drug Acquisition Cost data publicly available on at least a monthly basis by the end of 2011. Therefore, it may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover CUBICIN or ENTEREG and the willingness of providers to purchase it. Third-party payors, including the U.S. government, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for and the cost-effectiveness of medical products, and they are increasingly limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and other countries and the concurrent growth of organizations such as MCOs, as well as the implementation of health care reform, including the creation of accountable care organizations, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the implementation of 49 Table of Contents health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Furthermore, substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved health care products by third-party payors. We will not know what the reimbursement rates will be for our future drug products, if any, until we are ready to market the product and we actually negotiate the rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficiently high reimbursement rates for our products, they may not be commercially viable or our future revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. Finally, outside the U.S., certain countries, including some countries in the EU, set prices as part of the regulatory process concerning pricing and reimbursement with limited participation in the process by marketing authorization holders. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborators. Such prices may negatively impact our revenues from sales by our collaborators in those countries. An increasing number of countries are taking initiatives to attempt to reduce large budget deficits by focusing cost-cutting efforts on pharmaceuticals for their state-run health care systems. These international price control efforts have impacted all regions of the world, but have been most drastic in the EU. Major proposed or actual price reductions for branded pharmaceuticals occurred during 2010 and 2011 in Germany, Italy, Spain, France, and Greece. Further, a number of EU countries use drug prices from other EU Member States as "reference prices" to help determine pricing in their own countries. Consequently, a downward trend in drug prices for some countries could contribute to similar occurrences elsewhere. In addition, the current budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU Member States, including Greece and Spain, has led to substantial delays in payment by regulatory authorities for medicinal products supplied by manufacturers and distributors. In another international trend, various countries also are investigating completely new drug reimbursement methodologies, under which prices would be set largely on the basis of assumptions on a drug's pharmaco-economic value. For example, in 2010 the UK announced that, by 2014, it will begin determining reimbursement rates for new drug products based in large part on an assessment of the overall value of each drug's benefits. During 2011, the UK has reaffirmed their intention to implement this approach within their announced timing. The impact on reimbursement for CUBICIN, or any future drug product we may market in such countries, incremental resources needed to manage submissions in such a regulatory environment, and the potential for other countries adopting similar approaches are difficult to predict at this time. Our business and industry is highly regulated and scrutinized, and our long-term strategy and success is dependent upon compliance with applicable regulations and maintaining our business integrity. Research and Development. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that takes many years. We cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any of our drug candidates will demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy necessary to obtain marketing approvals. In addition, drug candidates that experience success in pre-clinical testing and early-stage clinical trials will not necessarily experience the same success in late-stage clinical trials, which are required for marketing approval. Some of the drug candidates that we are developing are in the pre-clinical stage. In order for a drug candidate to move from this stage to human clinical trials, we must submit an IND to the FDA or a similar document to competent health authorities outside the U.S. The FDA and other countries' authorities will allow us to begin clinical trials under an IND or similar document in other countries only if we demonstrate in our submission that a potential drug candidate will not expose humans to 50 Table of Contents unreasonable risks and that the compound has pharmacological activity that justifies clinical development. It takes significant time and expense to generate the requisite data to support an IND or similar document. In many cases, companies spend the time and resources only to discover that the data are not sufficient to support an IND or similar document and therefore are unable to enter clinical trials. In the past, we have had pre-clinical drug candidates for which we did not have the requisite data to file for an IND or similar document and proceed with clinical trials, and this likely will happen again in the future. Once a drug candidate enters human clinical trials, the trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the independent committees responsible for the ethical review of clinical studies (e.g., IRBs and/or Independent Ethics Committees, or IECs). There may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay either or both the start and the finish of the clinical trials. Feedback from regulatory authorities, IRBs, IECs, or safety monitoring boards or results from earlier stage and/or concurrent clinical studies might require modifications or delays in later stage clinical trials or could cause a termination or suspension of an entire drug development program. These types of delays or suspensions can result in increased development costs, delays in marketing approvals, and/or abandoning future development activities. Furthermore, there are a number of additional factors that may cause our clinical trials to be delayed, prematurely terminated or deemed inadequate to support regulatory approval, such as: •unforeseen safety issues or findings of an unacceptable safety profile; •findings of an unacceptable risk-benefit profile as a result of analyses conducted during the course or upon completion of ongoing clinical trials or other types of adverse events that occur in clinical trials that are disproportionate to statistical expectations; •inadequate efficacy observed in the clinical trials; •the rate of patient enrollment, including limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials or inability to enroll patients; •our inability to manufacture, or obtain from a third-party manufacturer, sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; •the impact of the results of other clinical trials on the drug candidates that we are developing, including by other parties who have rights to develop drug candidates being developed by us in other indications or other jurisdictions, such as clinical trials of CXA-101 or CXA-201 that may be conducted by Astellas or any other licensees that it may engage for development in territories for which we do not have commercial rights; •the delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites and other third-party vendors who are supporting our clinical trials; •our inability to reach agreement on trial design and priorities with collaborators with whom we are co-developing a drug candidate; •the difficulties and complexity of testing our drug candidates in clinical trials with pediatric patients as subjects, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, for which we are pursuing a U.S. regulatory filing to gain an additional six months of exclusivity based on safety and efficacy in children, for which additional clinical trials will be required; •the failure of third-party CROs and other third-party service providers and independent clinical investigators that we have engaged to manage and conduct the trials with appropriate quality and in compliance with regulatory requirements to perform their oversight of the trials, to meet expected deadlines or to complete any of the other activities that we have contracted such third parties to complete; 51 Table of Contents •the failure of our clinical investigational sites, and related facilities and the records kept at such sites, and clinical trial data to be in compliance with the FDA's Good Clinical Practices, or EU legislation governing good clinical practice, including the failure to pass FDA, EMA, or EU Member State inspections of clinical trials—such failure at even one site in a multi-site clinical trial can impact the results or success of the entire trial; •our inability to reach agreement with the FDA, the competent national authorities of EU Member States or the IECs on a trial design that we are able to execute, which could happen in the case of CUBICIN, for example, with respect to U.S. pediatric clinical trials; •the FDA or the competent national authorities of EU Member States, IECs or a Data Safety Monitoring Committee for a trial placing a trial on "clinical hold," temporarily or permanently stopping a trial, or requesting modifications of a trial protocol for a variety of reasons, often due to safety concerns; •any concern at the FDA, or the competent national authorities of EU Member States, with accepting the results of trials that have been conducted in countries for which the industry and regulatory authorities only have recent experience with and which may be seen to have less stringent compliance standards; •difficulty in adequately following up with patients after trial-related treatment; and •changes in laws, regulations, regulatory policy, or clinical practices. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed or canceled, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines and we may incur increased development costs and delays in marketing approvals, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Regulatory Product Approvals. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our drug candidates in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. To date, we have not obtained government approval in the U.S. for any drug product other than CUBICIN and ENTEREG. In territories around the world where CUBICIN is not already approved, our international collaborators have submitted or plan to submit applications for approvals to market CUBICIN. However, we cannot be certain that any regulatory authority will approve these or any future submissions on a timely basis or at all. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming procedures. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent or different requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of foreign regulators typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In addition, the Phase 3 clinical trials of many product candidates include health economics and outcomes research, or HEOR, endpoints or protocols, which may result in trials being prolonged so that the requisite HEOR data can be gathered and may result in unfavorable HEOR data, which could impact the product's approval or success in the marketplace. Generally, no product can receive FDA approval or approval from comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards or standards developed by regulatory agencies in countries other than the U.S. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate 52 Table of Contents the required safety and efficacy characteristics necessary for marketing approval. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our drug candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those drug candidates. The results of our clinical testing of a drug candidate may cause us to suspend, terminate or redesign our clinical testing program for that drug candidate. We cannot be sure when we, independently or with our collaborators, might be in a position to submit additional drug candidates for regulatory review. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. In addition, data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval and even could affect the commercial success of a product that is already on the market based on earlier trials, such as CUBICIN or ENTEREG. Moreover, recent events, including complications experienced by patients taking FDA-approved drugs, have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in new legislation by the U.S. Congress or foreign legislatures and increased caution by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in reviewing applications for approval of new drugs. In summary, we cannot be sure that regulatory approval will be granted for drug candidates that we submit for regulatory review. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of a drug candidate or if the timing of FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any foreign regulatory authority's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our drug candidates, our stock price could decline significantly. Even if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed as well as additional post-approval requirements. Our commercialization of an approved drug product is impacted by the design and results of the trials that we or others conducted for the drug because such design and results determine what will be included on the drug label approved by regulatory authorities, and the label governs how we are allowed to promote the drug. The FDA, or an equivalent competent authority of another country, may determine that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a new product continue to outweigh its risks once on the market. If required, a REMS may include various elements, such as publication of a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug's risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, or other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. For example, ENTEREG was approved in its labeled indication subject to a REMS that imposes restrictions and requirements on the distribution of ENTEREG that may affect the commercial prospects for the product. The REMS is subject to modification by the FDA at any time, and it is possible that the FDA could require changes to the REMS or other restrictions that would make it even more difficult to market and sell ENTEREG. The ENTEREG product labeling carries a boxed warning that ENTEREG is available only for short-term (15 doses) use in hospitalized patients. The REMS and the boxed warning may make it more difficult to market and sell ENTEREG. We are not permitted to sell ENTEREG to hospitals that do not register in the E.A.S.E. program as part of the REMS. Hospitals may be unwilling or unable to comply with the requirements for registration in the E.A.S.E. program. Complying with the requirements of the REMS can be costly and time-consuming and could adversely affect our financial performance. Failure to comply with the requirements of the approved REMS can render the drug misbranded, and a violation of a REMS requirement is subject to civil penalties. 53 Table of Contents Selling a pharmaceutical product in the hospital setting presents certain challenges. Hospitals differ widely and each hospital's or hospital group's prescribing is influenced by a list of accepted drugs called a formulary. Most hospitals have a committee, often called a pharmacy and therapeutics committee, which meets periodically to determine which pharmaceutical products to add to the formulary. Many factors are assessed by such committees, including the cost of the drug and its pharmaco-economic profile. Once a pharmaceutical is on formulary, it is easier for a physician within a hospital or hospital group to prescribe the drug. Hospital formulary approval is critical if ENTEREG is to become a commercial success and we cannot assure you that a sufficient number of hospitals will include ENTEREG on their formulary. Notwithstanding success in registering hospitals in the E.A.S.E. program and having those registered hospitals include ENTEREG on the formulary, there can be no assurance that such hospitals will order ENTEREG in meaningful amounts, if at all. Because of the restrictive nature of a REMS, we may seek to conduct clinical studies for a drug in a manner that we think will increase the chances of commercial success or design trials in such a way, for example by increasing the trial size, that we believe will reduce the chances of unfavorable information in the drug's label or a REMS. This approach may make clinical development of our drug candidates more expensive, and possibly increase our risk of failure. Even if our drug products are approved for marketing and commercialization, we may need to comply with post-approval clinical study commitments in order to maintain certain aspects of the approval of such products. For example, in connection with our U.S. marketing approvals for CUBICIN, we have made certain Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA, including for studies of renal-compromised patients and pediatric patients. Further, we are required to conduct certain post-approval clinical studies of ENTEREG in pediatric patients and in patients undergoing radical cystectomy, in which we are currently performing a Phase 4 clinical trial which is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2012. Our business could be seriously harmed, particularly with respect to our CUBICIN Phase 4 clinical study pediatric commitments, if we either do not complete these studies at all or within the time limits imposed by the FDA and, as a result, the FDA requires us to change related sections of the marketing label for CUBICIN or ENTEREG or imposes monetary fines on us. Adverse medical events that occur during clinical trials or during commercial marketing of CUBICIN or ENTEREG could result in legal claims against us and the temporary or permanent withdrawal of CUBICIN or ENTEREG from commercial marketing, which could seriously harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Commercialization. Our Company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, including foreign regulatory agencies, for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including cGMPs, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. In addition, if there are any modifications to a drug product that we are developing or commercializing, further regulatory approval will be required. Other U.S. state and federal laws and regulations and similar provisions in other countries also may affect our ability to manufacture, market and ship our product, and compliance with such laws, regulations and similar provisions may be difficult or costly for us. These include state or federal U.S. legislation, or legislation in other countries, that in the future could require us or the third parties that we utilize to manufacture and supply our marketed products and product candidates to maintain an electronic pedigree or other similar tracking requirements on our marketed products or product candidates. If any changes to our product or the manufacturing process are required, we may have to seek approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies in order to comply with the new laws. 54 Table of Contents Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval state or federal U.S. law, or similar laws of other countries, including laws that prohibit certain payments to health care professionals or inappropriate promotion and marketing activities, and/or require reports with respect to the payments and marketing efforts with respect to health care professionals or patients, or any regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, result in fines, increased compliance expense, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions, consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements and criminal prosecution. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug product, us or our manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug product from the market. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Compliance/Fraud and Abuse. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulation, including but not limited to, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program designed to promote compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure or alleged failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. There appears to be a heightened risk of such investigations in the current environment, as evidenced by recent enforcement activity and pronouncements by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services that it intends to continue to vigorously pursue fraud and abuse violations by pharmaceutical companies, including through the use of a legal doctrine that could impose criminal penalties on pharmaceutical company executives. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Other countries also have developed an array of legislative and regulatory provisions to combat fraud and abuse. Our partners responsible for authorization and marketing of CUBICIN in other countries have developed pricing, distribution and contracting procedures that are independent of our compliance program and over which we have no control. Our partners may have inadequate compliance programs or may fail to respect the laws and guidance of the territories in which they are promoting the product. Compliance violations by our distribution partners could have a negative effect on the revenues that we receive from sales of CUBICIN in these countries. Optimer co-promotes DIFICID along with us and, except for our co-promotion rights and our joint rights to review and approve promotional and medical affairs materials, is responsible for all aspects of the commercialization of DIFICID, including pricing, distribution and contracting, and will maintain a compliance program that is entirely independent of our compliance program. Any governmental or other actions brought against Optimer with respect to the commercialization of DIFICID could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully co-promote DIFICID and could subject us to investigation or other government actions. Adolor and/or Glaxo have been commercializing ENTEREG since 2008 under each company's own compliance program, which, prior to our acquisition of Adolor, we had no control over. We performed due diligence and are not aware of any compliance failures or violations at Adolor or Glaxo that could lead to a governmental or other action against Adolor with respect to the commercialization of ENTEREG. However, if there are any compliance issues that we did not discover and are unaware of that lead to any such governmental or other action regarding the commercialization of ENTEREG, our ability to successfully commercialize ENETEREG could be significantly impacted, and we may be subject to investigation or other government actions. We are required to submit pricing data to the federal government as a condition of selling ENTEREG to healthcare facilities of the U.S. Veterans Affairs, or VA, DoD, PHS and U.S. Coast Guard, or collectively, the VA Network. These price reports are used to determine the amount of 55 Table of Contents discount that must be provided to the VA Network. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under false claims laws for knowingly submitting inaccurate pricing information to the government to reduce their liability for providing discounts. The rules governing the calculation of these reported prices are complex. We currently depend upon a third-party to calculate these prices for ENTEREG and prior to the closing of the termination agreement with Glaxo, we were dependent on Glaxo for these calculations; it is possible that the methodologies used for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. If our methodologies are incorrect, we could face substantial liability. International Operations/Relationships. We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships outside the U.S., and CUBICIN is marketed internationally through collaborations. Consequently, we are and will continue to be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: •unexpected CUBICIN adverse events that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the U.S.; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased or unpredictable operating expenses and reduced revenues and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and •actions by us or our licensees, distributors, manufacturers, CROs, other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business in foreign countries, or our employees who are working abroad that could subject us to investigation or prosecution under foreign or U.S. laws, including the FCPA, or the anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of such foreign countries, including the UK, which is more stringent than the FCPA. These and other risks associated with our international operations, including those described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Environmental, Safety and Climate Control. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third-party manufacturers also may become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant, and the costs of complying with climate change laws also could be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations could subject us to substantial fines, penalties or environmental remediation costs, or cause us to lose permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, any of which could adversely affect our operations. Employment and Human Resources. The laws and regulations applicable to our relationships with our employees and contractors are complex, extensive and fluid and are subject to evolving interpretations by regulatory and judicial authorities. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant damages, orders and/or fines and therefore could adversely affect our operations. For example, a 2010 decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, In re 56 Table of Contents Novartis Wage & Hour Litigation, in a split from an earlier decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, held that pharmaceutical sales representatives were non-exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act, or FLSA. In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court will review a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Christopher v. SmithklineBeecham Corp. d/b/a GlaxoSmithKline that conflicts with the Novartis decision with respect to the applicability of one of the FLSA exemptions to pharmaceutical sales representatives. In the same case, the U.S. Supreme Court has said it will address the level of deference owed to the U.S. Department of Labor, or DOL, with respect to FLSA exemptions. The DOL has taken the position that pharmaceutical sales representatives should not be exempt under FLSA. A decision by the U.S. Supreme Court that pharmaceutical sales representatives are not exempt under the FLSA exemption at issue or that a high level of deference is owed to the DOL in the case could trigger additional litigation against pharmaceutical companies, including us. An adverse result in any significant litigation against us could result in significant damages to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are made, in part, through direct sales to our customers, which include hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. As a result of current global credit and financial market conditions, our customers may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations for invoiced product sales or may delay payments, which could negatively affect our revenues, income and cash flow. In addition, we rely upon third parties for many aspects of our business, including our collaboration partners, wholesale distributors for our products, contract clinical trial providers, research organizations and manufacturers, and third-party suppliers. Because of the tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a delay or disruption in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. The way that we account for our operational and business activities is based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results, and new accounting pronouncements or guidance may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among others, those related to revenue recognition, including product rebates, chargeback and return accruals; inventories; clinical research costs; investments; property and equipment; other intangible assets; income taxes; accounting for stock-based compensation and business combinations, including contingent consideration and impairment of goodwill and IPR&D. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based on our historical experience, future projections, our observance of trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and they form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values and fair values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. If actual results differ from these estimates as a result of unexpected conditions or events occurring which cause us to have to reassess our assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results and the performance of our stock. The FASB, the SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our financial statements and other public disclosures are issuing and amending proposed and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The pronouncements and interpretations of pronouncements by the FASB, the SEC and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to make changes in our 57 Table of Contents accounting policies, including how we account for revenues and/or expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials utilizing our products and drug candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the amounts that we desire for a price we are willing to pay. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The cost of defending any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Products liability litigation and other related proceedings also may absorb significant management time. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including those factors described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •the investment community's view of the revenue, financial and business projections we provide to the public, and whether we succeed or fail in meeting or exceeding these projections; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •an adverse result in the litigation that we intend to file against Hospira to defend and/or assert our patents in connection with Hospira's February 2012 notification to us that it has submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN before the expiration of the Orange Book patents covering CUBICIN; •whether additional third parties file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of our products prior to expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by us and the results of any litigation that we file to defend and/or assert our patents against such third parties; •liabilities in excess of amounts that we have accrued or reserved on our balance sheet; •third-party reports of our sales figures or revenues; •changes in the market, medical need or demand for CUBICIN, including as a result of the CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section; •the level of the medical community's acceptance and use of ENTEREG and DIFICID; •new legislation, laws or regulatory decisions that are adverse to us or our products; •the announcements of clinical trial results, regulatory filings, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; 58 Table of Contents •rumors, whether based in fact or unfounded, of any such transactions that are publicized in the media or are otherwise disseminated to investors in our stock and expectations in the financial markets that we may or may not be the target of potential acquirers; •litigation, including stockholder or patent litigation; •our failure to adequately protect our confidential, electronically-stored, transmitted and communicated information; and •volatility in the markets unrelated to our business and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Several aspects of our corporate governance may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several factors might discourage an attempt to acquire us that could be viewed as beneficial to our stockholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: •as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; •our Board has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock; •our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents our entire Board from being replaced in any single year; and •advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director and for a stockholder proposal at an annual meeting. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and 59 Table of Contents •if individuals are elected to our Board with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 