ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business, including those discussed below. Furthermore, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We refer you to our "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which identifies certain forward-looking statements contained in this report. We depend heavily on the continued commercial success of CUBICIN. Our current ability to maintain and grow revenues depends primarily on the commercial success of CUBICIN in the U.S. CUBICIN's continued acceptance by the medical community and the future market demand and medical need for CUBICIN are critical factors in CUBICIN's continued success. Although we also generate revenues from our sales of ENTEREG and co-promotion of DIFICID in 28 Table of Contents the U.S., such revenues have been and are expected to be much lower than our CUBICIN revenues. Therefore, if we are unable to continue to grow revenues from sales of CUBICIN, our future operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. CUBICIN may not continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. We cannot be sure that CUBICIN will continue to be accepted by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers for its approved indications in the U.S., particularly as the market into which CUBICIN is sold has grown only modestly, and economic problems persist. These factors have resulted in increased efforts by hospitals and others to minimize expenditures by encouraging the purchase of lower-cost alternative therapies, including generic products like vancomycin, patients electing lower-cost alternative therapies due to increased out-of-pocket costs, patients choosing to have fewer elective surgeries and other procedures, and lower overall admissions to hospitals. The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold depends on a number of additional factors, including those set forth below and the other CUBICIN-related risk factors described in this "Risk Factors" section: •the safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived; •the possibility that target organisms develop resistance to CUBICIN; •our ability to maintain prescribing information, also known as a label, that is substantially consistent with current prescribing information for CUBICIN; •the rate of growth, if any, of the overall market into which CUBICIN is sold, including the market for products to treat MRSA skin and bloodstream infections; •our ability to effectively promote CUBICIN to those physicians who treat patients for whom CUBICIN would be appropriate, particularly in light of increasing restrictions on our sales force's access to physicians; •our ability to maintain and enforce U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN, particularly in light of efforts by companies such as Hospira and Teva to obtain approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN; •our ability to maintain and grow market share and vial sales as the price of CUBICIN increases in a market that has shown only modest growth and in light of the cost containment efforts of hospitals; •the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN, both actual and perceived, compared to alternative therapies with respect to cost, convenience, safety, efficacy and other factors; •the impact on physicians' perception and use of CUBICIN as a result of treatment guidelines that are published from time to time, including the treatment guidelines for MRSA infections published by the Infectious Diseases Society of America, or IDSA, in early 2011; •the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and the level and scope of rebates, discounts, fees and other payments that we are required to pay or provide under federal government programs in the U.S., such as Medicare, Medicaid and the 340B/PHS drug pricing program; and •future legislative and policy changes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where CUBICIN is sold. Our ability to successfully sell ENTEREG depends on many of the same factors listed above that may impact our sales of CUBICIN. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to grow revenues and execute on our long-term strategy depends heavily on our ability to acquire and/or discover, develop, and obtain marketing approval for additional products or product candidates, such as ceftolozane/tazobactam. In order for us to achieve our long-term business objectives, we will need to acquire and/or successfully develop and commercialize additional products or product candidates, including ceftolozane/tazobactam and others. Although we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in research and development, including by increasing our research and development personnel, we have had only a limited number of our internally-discovered product candidates even reach the clinical development stage. Failure by us to successfully acquire and/or develop and obtain marketing approval for additional products and product candidates would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow revenues, our financial condition, and our ability to execute on our long-term business objectives. Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure. Drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing before they can even be tested in human clinical trials. Even if we are successful in advancing a product candidate into the clinical development stage, before obtaining regulatory approval for the product candidate, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. Regulatory authorities such as the FDA and its foreign equivalents have broad discretion in the review process and may decide that the results of any clinical trials we conduct for a product candidate are insufficient for approval. If we are not successful in developing and obtaining marketing approvals for additional product candidates, including ceftolozane/tazobactam, our long-term business plans would be adversely affected. We may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drug candidates or marketed drug products on acceptable terms or at all. We have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products from a variety of other companies with interest in the anti-infective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in pharmaceutical development than we have. Because of the intense competition for these types of drug candidates and marketed products, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such candidates and products has grown dramatically in recent years and is often at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. This competition is most intense for late-stage candidates and marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our financial performance. If we are not successful in acquiring additional commercial stage products, our long-term business plans would be adversely affected. The commercial success of CUBICIN outside the U.S is largely dependent on our third-party partners and other factors outside of our control. As of December 31, 2012, CUBICIN had been approved or received an import license in more than 70 countries outside of the U.S. and is commercially available in more than 50 countries, including countries in the EU, Asia (including Japan) and Latin America. We do not market and sell CUBICIN directly outside of the U.S., but rely on third parties to do so. Our partners may not be successful in launching or marketing CUBICIN in their markets. To date, EU sales have grown more slowly than U.S. sales did in the same period after launch due primarily to lower MRSA rates in some EU countries, an additional glycopeptide competitor (teicoplanin), which is not approved in the U.S., the commercialization strategy and mix of resources that our EU partner, Novartis, has been using to commercialize CUBICIN, as well as other factors. Even if our international partners are successful in commercializing CUBICIN, we only receive a portion of the revenues from non-U.S. sales of CUBICIN. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights in CUBICIN in the face of challenges from companies like Hospira and Teva who seek to sell generic versions of CUBICIN. Although we continue to own rights to a number of patents covering CUBICIN, certain patent rights covering CUBICIN in the U.S. have expired. We cannot be sure that any patents covering CUBICIN will not be contested or invalidated or that any patent applications will be granted. Of particular concern is that third parties may seek approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing applications with the FDA in which they claim that the patents protecting CUBICIN are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In February 2012, we received a letter from Hospira notifying us that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of daptomycin for injection (the active ingredient in CUBICIN), 500 mg/vial, which ANDA was subsequently amended by Hospira in May 2012. In August 2012, we received another letter from Hospira notifying us that it had submitted to the FDA an NDA seeking approval to market a generic version of daptomycin for injection, 350 mg/vial. Each of the notice letters further stated that Hospira is asserting that each claim in the relevant CUBICIN patents is invalid, and/or unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the commercial manufacture, use or sale of the drug product described by Hospira's ANDA, as amended, and NDA. In 2012, we filed several patent infringement lawsuits against Hospira in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging infringement of certain U.S. patents covering CUBICIN. The complaints seek (i) an order preventing the effective date of the FDA's approval of Hospira's ANDA and NDA until the expiration of the relevant patents; (ii) an order preventing Hospira from making, using, selling, offering for sale, marketing, distributing or importing its generic versions of CUBICIN until the expiration of the relevant patents; and (iii) an award of attorney's fees. The court has scheduled a trial date in these related actions beginning in February 2014 and a Markman hearing in April 2013. Until this dispute is finally resolved, the uncertainty of the outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in these litigations, whether appealable or not, would likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in these litigations would likely have a material adverse effect on the continued commercialization of CUBICIN, our results of operations and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. In any event, this dispute and these litigations may result in substantial cost to us and distract our management from other aspects of our business. In April 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with Teva and its affiliates to resolve patent infringement litigation with respect to CUBICIN. Under the settlement agreement, we granted Teva a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to sell a generic daptomycin for injection product in the U.S. beginning on the later of (i) December 24, 2017, and (ii) if our daptomycin for injection product receives pediatric exclusivity, June 24, 2018. The license we granted to Teva would become effective prior to the later of these two dates if (i) the patents that were the subject of the patent litigation with Teva are held invalid, unenforceable or not infringed with respect to a third party's generic version of daptomycin for injection, which could occur if Hospira is successful in our patent litigation with Hospira, (ii) a third party sells a generic version of daptomycin for injection under a license or other authorization from us, or (iii) there are no longer any unexpired patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book as applying to our NDA covering CUBICIN. Teva may also sell generic daptomycin supplied by Cubist at an earlier date upon certain specified types of "at risk" launches of a generic daptomycin for injection product by a third party. The license terminates upon the expiration, or an unappealed or unappealable determination of invalidity or unenforceability, of all the licensed patents, including any pediatric or other exclusivity relating to the licensed patents or CUBICIN. If this license becomes effective, or the license or settlement agreement terminates earlier than we anticipate, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. In addition, the FTC or the DOJ could seek to challenge our settlement with Teva, or a competitor, customer or other third-party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlement with Teva. While we believe our settlement is lawful, we may not prevail in 31 Table of Contents any such challenges or litigation. We may incur significant costs in the event of an investigation or in defending any such action and our business and results of operations could be materially impacted if we fail to prevail against any such challenges. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the continued development and commercialization of our products, product candidates and research technologies. Our commercial success will also depend in part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN and U.S. patent protection for ENTEREG, our drug candidates, and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third-party challenges, including with respect to generic challenges. For our products and drug candidates where we cooperate with a partner, collaborator or other third party to enforce and defend the proprietary rights, such as ENTEREG, ceftolozane/tazobactam, bevenopran and CB-625, our commercial success will depend in part on such partners, collaborators or other third parties cooperating with us or doing the same on their own. We cannot be sure that our patents and patent applications, including our own and those that we have rights to under licenses from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including, without limitation to the following: •the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions; •the actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country; •the laws of foreign countries in which we market our drug products may afford little or no effective protection to our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors' ability to compete with us in such countries; •intellectual property laws and regulations and legal standards relating to the validity, scope and enforcement of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing and changing, both in the U.S. and in other important markets outside the U.S.; •third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us; and •the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and, as a consequence, our and our partners' patent applications may result in patents with narrower coverage than we desire or have planned for. If our licensors, collaborators or consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. We also have and may in the future engage in collaborations, sponsored research agreements and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions that have received and may receive funding from U.S. government agencies. As a result of these arrangements, the U.S. government or certain third parties may have rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations and agreements as required by law or by such agreements. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our manufacturing and product development activities. To the extent that we maintain a competitive advantage by relying on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary information, such competitive advantage may be compromised if others independently develop the same or similar technology. We seek to protect trade 32 Table of Contents secrets and proprietary information in part through confidentiality provisions and invention assignment provisions in agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements could be held unenforceable, or if breached, we might not have adequate remedies. We rely on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN and our other products and product candidates, and any difficulties, delays or disruptions in the manufacturing process or supply of any of our products or product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We rely on third parties to manufacture API and finished drug product for all of our products and product candidates, including CUBICIN. We also rely on third parties to manufacture material for the conduct of ongoing and planned clinical trials, including our ongoing and planned ceftolozane/tazobactam trials. Any difficulties, delays or disruptions in the manufacturing process for any of our products or product candidates could result in a number of adverse consequences for our business, including but not limited to, a loss of inventory, our inability to supply sufficient quantities of drug product to meet U.S. demand, our inability to satisfy our contractual obligations to supply our international CUBICIN partners, our inability to supply sufficient quantities of test material to conduct our clinical trials in a timely or cost effective manner and the incurrence of substantial additional costs to remediate or identify alternatives sources of supply. Any of these consequences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and long-term business plans. We contract with ACSD as our sole provider of our commercial supply of CUBICIN API worldwide. Although we hold a supply of safety stock of API at another warehouse/distribution center in addition to what is stored at ACSD, any natural or other disaster, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability at these facilities that causes a loss of this safety stock would heighten the risk that we face. We contract with multiple third parties, including Hospira Worldwide and Oso to manufacture and supply to us finished CUBICIN drug product for our worldwide needs. Hospira, which has submitted filings to the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN, is an affiliate of Hospira Worldwide. For many of the non-U.S. markets in which CUBICIN is sold, either Hospira Worldwide or Oso is the sole supplier of one or more of the vial sizes that are sold in such markets. We also rely on third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to manufacture clinical trial materials for our drug candidates, and we will rely on CMOs to manufacture commercial supplies, if any such drug candidates are ultimately approved for commercial sale. In order to successfully develop and commercialize these drug candidates in a timely manner, we and our CMOs must be able to develop and execute on manufacturing processes for each candidate that will: •be approved by the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities in the countries where such candidates are manufactured or sold; •produce sufficient quantities of API and drug product of such candidates to meet our clinical trial needs and market demand; and •produce such amounts at a cost that will allow us to make an adequate profit. We have not yet been able to meet these manufacturing process requirements for any of our current drug candidates, including ceftolozane/tazobactam, all of which have complex manufacturing processes, which make meeting these requirements even more challenging. If we are unable to develop manufacturing processes for ceftolozane/tazobactam and our other drug candidates that satisfy these requirements, our financial performance will be adversely impacted, and we will be unable to meet our long-term goals. 33 Table of Contents Factors that could cause our suppliers of API, drug product or clinical trial material to experience difficulties, delays or disruptions in supply include, but are not limited to: •difficulties in obtaining raw materials or supplies; •delays in obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals; •any significant problems with their businesses, including staffing difficulties, slow-downs or shut-downs of their business, whether as a result of the current constrained credit and financial markets or otherwise; •failure to conform to applicable cGMPs or regulatory requirements; •errors or inconsistencies in their testing and release procedures; •lack of capacity due to competing demands from other customers; and •natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability. Due to the significant U.S. and international regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify new suppliers, we could experience significant interruptions in supply if we needed to transfer the manufacture of any API, drug product or clinical trial material to one or more other suppliers to address these or any other difficulties with our current suppliers. Any failure by our third-party suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could also be the basis for sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, suspension of manufacture, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product or product candidates, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our financial performance and long-term business plans. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and will likely face additional competition in the future from third-party drug candidates under development and from generic versions of CUBICIN. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, including larger and more experienced global development staffs and sales and marketing organizations and greater manufacturing capabilities. Our competitors may develop, acquire or license technologies and drug products that are safer, easier to administer, more effective, or less costly than our products or drug candidates, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. Competition in the market for therapeutic products that address serious Gram-positive bacterial infections is intense. CUBICIN faces competition in the U.S. from commercially-available drugs such as: vancomycin, marketed generically by Abbott Laboratories, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and others; Zyvox, marketed by Pfizer; Synercid, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer; Tygacil, marketed by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is also a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer; VIBATIV, which is being marketed by Theravance, Inc.; and Teflaro, which is being marketed by Forest. In particular, vancomycin has been a widely used and well-known antibiotic for more than 50 years and is sold in a relatively inexpensive generic form. Vancomycin sales account for approximately 70% of sales, based on days of therapy, in this market. In addition, CUBICIN is expected to face competition in the U.S. from a generic version of CUBICIN to be marketed by Teva under the terms of our settlement agreement with Teva. CUBICIN may also face competition in the U.S from a generic version of CUBICIN if Hospira's ANDA or NDA, or a third party's filing to the 34 Table of Contents FDA for approval to market a generic version of CUBICIN, is ultimately approved or a generic version of CUBICIN otherwise comes to market. CUBICIN also may face competition in the future from several drug candidates currently in clinical development as treatments for cSSSI. CUBICIN is also priced higher than many of its competitor products, which could inhibit the continued acceptance of CUBICIN or otherwise cause physicians switch to new drug products or reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances. Any inability on our part to compete with current or subsequently-introduced drug products, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We need to manage our growth effectively, and the increased breadth and complexity of our activities may expose us to additional risk. We have expanded the scope of our business significantly in recent years. In 2010, we had one product, CUBICIN, which we were selling in the U.S. and no product candidates that had reached Phase 3 clinical trials. We are now selling two products on our own, co-promoting a third product in the U.S. and have three product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials. We also have grown our employee base substantially, particularly in research and development and sales. We plan to continue adding products and drug candidates through internal development, in-licensing and acquisition over the next several years and to continue developing our existing drug candidates through clinical trials. Our ability to continue to successfully commercialize our existing products, achieve our research and development objectives, add and integrate new products and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration and acquisition agreements depends on our ability to effectively manage these increased demands on our organization and expand our organization and infrastructure. To manage the increasing breadth and complexity of our activities, we will also need to continue making significant additional investments in personnel, infrastructure, information management systems and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage and progress some or all of these activities, our ability to maximize the value of one or more of our products or product candidates could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties, such as CROs, to help us conduct our clinical trials, and if these third parties fail to fulfill their obligations to us, our development programs may be adversely affected. As we advance our product candidates through development, the size and scope of the clinical trials we conduct increases significantly, including the number of patients and medical conditions being studied and the number of clinical sites and countries in which the trials will be conducted. We contract with third parties such as CROs, contract investigational drug labeling and distribution providers, and regional and central laboratories to assist with the conduct of our clinical trials. As a result, many key operational aspects of our clinical trial process are out of our direct control. If the CROs and other third parties that we rely on for patient enrollment and other services related to the conduct of our clinical trials fail to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner or in compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, we could face significant delays in completing our clinical trials, or we may be unable to rely on the clinical data generated. If these, or other problems occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, we may be required to repeat one or more of our clinical trials, or we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Outsourcing this critical work to third parties also leaves us exposed to the risk that changes in their business or financial condition could cause them to no longer be able to support our business, the impact of which could delay key projects and initiatives and therefore adversely impact the timing and achievement of our business goals. 35 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and limit turnover in our sales and marketing personnel. Our ability to be successful in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical, sales and other personnel. In order to attract and retain highly qualified and high performing employees, we provide competitive compensation packages. We also have provided retention letters to our executive officers and certain other key employees. However, despite our efforts to retain highly qualified and performing employees, key employees have in the past and may in the future choose to terminate their employment with us. Any failure to attract and retain our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business and financial results. Also, we market and sell CUBICIN in the U.S. through our own sales force and marketing team. Significant turnover or changes in the level of experience of our sales and marketing personnel, particularly our most senior sales and marketing personnel, could impact our ability to effectively sell and market CUBICIN and our other products. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies, and we may not realize the benefits of any such acquisitions. In order for us to achieve our publicly-stated, long-term business objectives, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies. We have limited experience in acquiring businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management's attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; assumption of undisclosed liabilities; and uncertainty about the effectiveness of the acquired company's internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because the price paid for acquiring businesses often exceeds the book value of the acquired company, the successful realization of value from an acquisition typically derives from capitalizing on cost savings realized by combining the acquirer and target company. If we are unable to realize such cost savings, we may not be able to justify the price paid for such an acquisition. Also, in paying for acquisitions and/or funding the development and commercialization of drug products or candidates that we obtain through acquisitions, we may deplete our cash resources or need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. We may not be able to raise such funds on favorable or desirable terms or at all, especially if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. There is also the risk that our valuation of an acquired product or business may turn out to be erroneous and thereby cause us to have overvalued an acquisition target, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result, we cannot assure you that, following any prior or future acquisitions, we will achieve revenues that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. The process of obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to market and sell drug products in the U.S. and in foreign countries is complex, time consuming, expensive and subject to a number of risks that could result in a failure to obtain approval for the product candidate. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our drug candidates in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. To date, we have not obtained government approval in the U.S. for any drug product other than CUBICIN and ENTEREG. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These requirements include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming 36 Table of Contents procedures. In addition, regulation is not static, and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent or different requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of foreign regulators typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. Differing regulatory approval requirements in different countries make it more difficult for us to conduct unified global trials, which can lead to increased development costs and marketing delays or non-viability of our clinical trials. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In addition, the Phase 3 clinical trials of many product candidates include health economics and outcomes research, or HEOR, endpoints or protocols, which may result in trials being prolonged so that the requisite HEOR data can be gathered and may result in unfavorable HEOR data, which could impact the product's approval, reimbursement or success in the marketplace. Generally, no product can receive FDA approval or approval from comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with such authority's standards. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the required safety and efficacy characteristics necessary for marketing approval. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our drug candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those drug candidates. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated. Clinical and other data are also often subject to varying interpretations, so even if we believe that the data from clinical trials that we conduct for a product candidate produced positive results, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may determine that the data we submit with any marketing approval application, including our planned NDA for ceftolozane/tazobactam, is not adequate for approval. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for additional product candidates. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of a drug candidate or if the timing of FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any foreign regulatory authority's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our drug candidates, our stock price could decline significantly. Even if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed and additional post-approval requirements. The commercialization of a drug product is impacted by the design and results of the trials that we or others conducted for the drug because such design and results determine what will be included on the drug label approved by regulatory authorities, and the label governs how we are allowed to promote the drug. The FDA, or an equivalent authority of another country, may determine that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a new product continue to outweigh its risks once on the market. If required, a REMS may include various elements, such as publication of a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug's risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug or other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug, any of which would make it more difficult to market the product, especially if competitor products are not subject to a similar REMS. For example, ENTEREG was approved with a boxed warning on its label and subject to a REMS that imposes restrictions and requirements on the distribution of ENTEREG, which make it more difficult to market and sell. The REMS is subject to modification by the FDA at any time, and it is possible that the FDA 37 Table of Contents could require changes to the REMS or other restrictions that would make it even more difficult, costly and time-consuming to market and sell ENTEREG. Even if our drug products are approved for marketing and commercialization, we may need to comply with post-approval clinical study commitments in order to maintain certain aspects of the approval of such products. For example, in connection with our U.S. marketing approvals for CUBICIN and ENTEREG, we have made certain Phase 4 clinical study commitments to the FDA. If we do not complete these studies or do not complete them within the time limits imposed by the FDA, the FDA could impose monetary fines or other sanctions on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have collaborative and other similar types of relationships with third parties that expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate that we will continue to enter into, collaborative and other types of contractual arrangements, which we refer to as collaborations, with third parties to discover, test, develop, manufacture, market and promote drug candidates and drug products. For example, we have agreements with several pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize CUBICIN outside the U.S., a collaboration to co-promote DIFICID in the U.S., and collaborations with respect to certain of our early-stage and pre-clinical candidates. In order for existing and future collaborations to be successful, we need to be able to work effectively with our collaborators. Reliance on collaborations poses a number of risks to our business including the following: •our collaborators may not perform their contractual obligations, including complying with the required level of development or commercialization efforts and appropriate and timely reporting on adverse events in their territories, as expected; •we may be dependent upon other collaborators to manufacture and supply drug product in order to develop and/or commercialize the drug product that is the subject of the collaboration, and our collaborators may encounter unexpected issues or delays in manufacturing and/or supplying such drug product; •in situations where we and our collaborator share decision-making power with respect to development of the product, we and our collaborator may not agree on decisions that could adversely affect the development, regulatory approval, manufacture or commercial viability of the product or result in litigation or arbitration; •in situations where we and our collaborator are sharing the costs of development, our collaborators may not have the funds to contribute their share of the costs of the collaboration; •we may fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to our partners, including obligations to supply our international CUBICIN partners with finished CUBICIN drug product, which could subject us to claims for damages and other losses or rights to terminate the agreement; •some drug candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own drug candidates or drug products, which may lead them to reduce their effort on the drug candidates or drug products on which we are collaborating with them; •the protection of proprietary rights, including patent rights, for the technology underlying the drug products we license may be under the control of our collaborators and therefore our ability to control the patent protection of the drug product may be limited; and •our collaborators could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could cause them to de-prioritize their efforts on our collaboration. 38 Table of Contents Collaborations with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish and successfully maintain such arrangements on terms favorable to us or to work successfully with our collaborators could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our investments are subject to risks which could result in losses. We invest our cash in money market instruments, bank deposits, corporate and municipal notes, U.S. Treasury securities and federal agency securities. All of these investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. These risks have been heightened in today's tightened and fluctuating credit and financial markets. Such risks, including the risk of failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses or a complete loss of our investments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may incur additional losses or fail to increase our profit. Despite our recent sustained profitability, we may have lower levels of profitability or incur operating losses in future periods as a result of, among other things, revenues growing more slowly or declining, increased spending on the development of our drug candidates, or investments in the acquisition or in-licensing of additional products or product candidates. Lower levels of profitability and/or operating losses may negatively impact our stock price and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may require additional funds to execute on our long-term business strategy, and such funds may not be available to us on terms that we find acceptable or at all, particularly if the financial and credit markets are constrained at the time we require funding. Although we held $979.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2012, and we recently entered into a $150.0 million revolving credit facility, we may be required to seek additional funds in the future to execute on our long-term business strategy. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, develop our drug candidates, seek to acquire companies, products and product candidates, expand our research and development activities and infrastructure, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond our control. In addition, if not repurchased, redeemed or converted earlier, $450.0 million of aggregate principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes, or 2.50% Notes, currently outstanding will become due in November 2017. We may seek any additional needed funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders could result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors or lenders may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional debt securities in the future, our existing debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources when needed or, if available, will be on acceptable terms, if at all, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. If we fail to obtain 39 Table of Contents additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to execute our current long-term business plans successfully. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly once we utilize our remaining federal and state net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate (sometimes referred to as "book tax"). These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock-based compensation, the accounting for business combinations, including accounting for contingent consideration, changes in tax laws and rates, the tax impact of existing or future health care reform legislation, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our provision for income tax resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations, including our net income. The effect on our results of operations may impact, or be perceived to impact, our financial condition and may therefore cause our stock price to decline. Patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our products or processes could result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts for such products. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and interference and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The types of situations in which we may become a party to such litigation or proceedings include the following: •if, in addition to Hospira, other third parties file applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of our products, we will need to assert and defend our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement; •we or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce patent rights, invalidate the patents held by such third parties, or obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties' patents; •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; •if our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we or our collaborators may participate in interference, derivation and/or post-grant opposition proceedings to determine the validity, priority and/or inventorship of relevant patent filings; and •if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our brand names infringe their trademarks, we or our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings. An adverse outcome in any patent litigation, including the litigation with Hospira, or other proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology that is at issue or to license the technology from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of similar litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties 40 Table of Contents resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace and our stock price. Revenues generated by our currently commercialized products and products which we may commercialize in the future depend on reimbursement from third-party payors. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of CUBICIN, ENTEREG and any future drug product we may market are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, and private insurance plans. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if these third-party payors do not sufficiently cover and reimburse the cost of CUBICIN or ENTEREG, related procedures or services, or any other future drug product we may market. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for CUBICIN or ENTEREG, or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, CUBICIN or ENTEREG may be too costly for general use, and physicians may prescribe them less frequently. In both the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, legislative and regulatory actions, including but not limited to the Medicaid rebate program, Medicare Parts A, B and D, 340B/PHS drug pricing programs and the VHC Act pricing program impact the revenues that we derive from CUBICIN and ENTEREG. One impending federal government action with unknown, but potentially significant impact on our business is the possible sequestration for the Medicare program, a feature of the Budget Control Act. Sequestration is a series of mandated reductions to previously-planned federal spending for 2013-2021, which includes a 2% reduction in planned Medicare reimbursements, totaling $123 billion. These reductions would impact reimbursement to hospitals (inpatient and outpatient), physicians, and Medicare managed care and prescription drug plans, under the Medicare Parts A, B and D, and Medicare Advantage programs. The significant magnitude of these payment reductions would place additional financial pressures on Medicare providers, particularly hospitals with heavy inpatient Medicare utilization, which could force these providers to take new measures to address the shortfall in previously-expected reimbursements. It is possible that these measures could result in heightened scrutiny and/or reduced purchasing of branded pharmaceuticals, such as CUBICIN, ENTEREG, and any future drug product we may market. In addition to these existing legislative and regulatory mandates, future legislation or regulatory actions altering these mandates or imposing new ones could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In the U.S. and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory actions and proposals to control and reduce health care costs. These measures can, among other things, negatively impact the level of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, require higher levels of cost-sharing by beneficiaries, change the discounts required to be provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers to government payors, extend government discounts to additional government programs or reduce the level of reimbursement for health care services and other non-drug items. Examples of such actions that have been publicly proposed and/or included in past bills introduced in Congress include federal rebates on Medicare Part D and Medicare Advantage volume for drugs issued to economically-disadvantaged beneficiaries (i.e., those who are dual-eligible for Medicare and Medicaid, or eligible for federal lower income subsidies), federal rebates for Medicare Part B volume, reductions in ASP reimbursement for Medicare Part B payment rates and partial or full extension of 340B/PHS discounts to disproportionate share hospitals' inpatient purchases. Any such measures could indirectly impact demand for pharmaceutical products because they can cause payors and providers to apply heightened scrutiny and/or austerity actions to their entire operations, including pharmacy budgets. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and other countries and the concurrent growth of organizations such as MCOs, as well as the implementation of health care reform, including the creation of accountable care organizations and integrated delivery 41 Table of Contents networks, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the implementation of health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed or acquired by us. In the U.S., individual states' responses to ongoing financial pressures could also result in measures designed to limit reimbursement, restrict access, or impose broader or deeper discounts on branded pharmaceutical products utilized for Medicaid patients, including CUBICIN, ENTEREG or any future drug product we may market. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Finally, outside the U.S., certain countries, including some countries in the EU, set prices as part of the regulatory process concerning pricing and reimbursement with limited participation in the process by marketing authorization holders. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborators. Such prices may negatively impact our revenues from sales by us or our collaborators in those countries. An increasing number of countries are taking initiatives to attempt to reduce large budget deficits by focusing cost-cutting efforts on pharmaceuticals for their state-run health care systems. These international price control efforts have impacted all regions of the world, but have been most drastic in the EU. Further, an increasing number of EU countries use drug prices from other EU Member States as "reference prices" to help determine pricing in their own countries. Consequently, a downward trend in drug prices for some countries could contribute to similar occurrences elsewhere. In addition, the current budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU Member States, including Greece and Spain, has led to substantial delays in payment and payment partially with government bonds rather than cash by regulatory authorities for medicinal products supplied by manufacturers and distributors. Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure. Drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that takes many years. We cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any of our drug candidates will demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy necessary to obtain marketing approvals. In addition, drug candidates that experience success in pre-clinical testing and early-stage clinical trials will not necessarily experience the same success in late-stage clinical trials, which are required for marketing approval. The FDA and other countries' authorities will allow us to begin clinical trials under an IND or similar document in other countries only if we demonstrate in our submission that the potential drug candidate will not expose humans to unreasonable risks and that the compound has pharmacological activity that justifies clinical development. It takes significant time and expense to generate the requisite data to support an IND or similar document. In many cases, companies spend the time and resources only to discover that the data are not sufficient to support an IND or similar document and therefore are unable to enter clinical trials. In the past, we have had pre-clinical drug candidates for which we were not able to generate adequate data to proceed with clinical trials, and this likely will happen again in the future. Even if we are successful in advancing a product candidate into the clinical development stage, before obtaining regulatory approval, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. Human clinical trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the independent committees responsible for the ethical review of clinical studies. There may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay the start or completion of the clinical trials. In addition, clinical practices vary globally, and there is a lack of harmonization among the guidance provided by 42 Table of Contents various regulatory bodies of different regions and countries with respect to the data that is required to receive marketing approval, which makes designing global trials increasingly complex. There are a number of additional factors that may cause our clinical trials to be delayed, prematurely terminated or deemed inadequate to support regulatory approval, such as: •the difficulties and complexity of testing our drug candidates in clinical trials with pediatric patients as subjects, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, for which we are pursuing a U.S. regulatory filing to gain an additional six months of exclusivity based on safety and efficacy in pediatric patients; •unforeseen safety issues (including those arising with respect to trials by third parties for compounds in a similar class as our product or product candidate), inadequate efficacy, or an unacceptable risk-benefit profile observed at any point during or after completion of the trials; •slower than expected rates of patient enrollment, which could be due to any number of factors, including failure of our third-party vendors, including our CROs, to effectively perform their obligations to us, a lack of patients who meet the enrollment criteria or competition from clinical trials in similar product classes or patient populations; •the risk of failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities to maintain compliance with the FDA's current Good Clinical Practices regulations or similar regulations in countries outside of the U.S., including the risk that these sites fail to pass inspections by the appropriate governmental authority, which could invalidate the data collected at that site; •any inability to reach agreement with the FDA, equivalent regulatory authorities, or ethical review committees on trial design that we are able to execute, such as in the case of CUBICIN with respect to U.S. pediatric clinical trials; and •changes in laws, regulations, regulatory policy or clinical practices. The FDA or other regulatory authorities could determine that our clinical trials and/or manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations or were otherwise not properly managed by or our third party vendors. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our development programs, including ceftolozane/tazobactam, could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays, prevent us from obtaining marketing approval for any product candidate or abandon development of certain product candidates, any of which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to ongoing U.S. and foreign regulatory obligations and oversight of many critical aspects of our business, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences including the potential suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We and our commercial partners are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, pertaining to the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping related to our products. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with respect to our products or third-party manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products, or even the withdrawal of our products from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in product sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us or our third-party manufacturers. We or our partners may also be subject to additional sanctions, such as: •warning letters; 43 Table of Contents •civil or criminal penalties; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •temporary or permanent closing of our facilities or those of our third-party manufacturers; •requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy or other issues involving our products; •changes to the package insert for our products; •implementation of risk mitigation programs; •restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of our products; or •recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our business. If we or our commercial partners market or distribute our products in a manner that violates federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the FCPA and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we commercialize and intend to commercialize our products, including CUBICIN, either directly or through our commercial partners. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our third-party contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. However, our commercial partners for CUBICIN in other countries have developed pricing, distribution and contracting procedures that are independent of our compliance program and over which we have no control. Our partners may have inadequate compliance programs or may fail to respect the laws and guidance of the territories in which they are promoting the product. Compliance violations by our distribution partners could have a negative effect on the revenues that we receive from sales of CUBICIN in these countries. Adolor and/or Glaxo commercialized ENTEREG from 2008 until our acquisition of Adolor in December 2011, under each company's own compliance program, which, prior to our acquisition of Adolor, we had no control over. If we, our representatives or our partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or our partners, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or our partners market and sell our products, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several U.S. states have also enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states, Congress and foreign governments. In addition, as part of health care reform, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and related regulations. Beginning in 2014, manufacturers of drugs will be required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply 44 Table of Contents with these requirements are not always clear. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any federal, state or foreign laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, harm or prevent sales of our products, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to calculate and report certain pricing data to the U.S. federal government in connection with federal drug pricing programs. Compliance with these federal drug pricing programs is a pre-condition to (i) the availability of federal funds to pay for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B; and (ii) procurement of our products by the VA, and by covered entities under the 340B/PHS program. The pricing data reported are used as the basis for establishing FSS and 340B/PHS program contract pricing and payment and rebate rates under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs, respectively. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws for submitting inaccurate and/or incomplete pricing information to the government, which has resulted in overcharges under these programs. The rules governing the calculation of certain reported prices are highly complex. Although we maintain and follow strict procedures to ensure the maximum possible integrity for our federal price calculations, the process for making the required calculations involves some subjective judgments and the risk of errors always exists, which creates the potential for exposure under the false claims laws. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, and our methodologies for calculating federal prices are found to include flaws or to have been incorrectly applied, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience operating internationally, are subject to a number of risks associated with our international activities and operations and may not be successful in our efforts to expand internationally. We currently have very limited operations outside of the U.S. and currently employ only one senior executive outside the U.S., who is located in Zurich, Switzerland. However, we have manufacturing, collaboration, clinical trial and other relationships outside the U.S., and CUBICIN is marketed internationally through collaborations. Also, in order to meet our long-term goals, we will need to grow our international operations significantly over the next several years. Consequently, we are and will continue to be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: •the fact that we have limited experience operating our business internationally; •unexpected adverse events related to CUBICIN or our other products or product candidates that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the U.S.; •local, economic and political conditions, including geopolitical events, such as war and terrorism, foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased or unpredictable operating expenses and reduced revenues and other obligations incident to doing business in, or with a company located in, another country; 45 Table of Contents •unexpected changes in reimbursement and pricing requirements, tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including foreign currency exchange risks, inflation or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and •compliance with foreign or U.S. laws, rules and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import, export and trade restrictions, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules , which could lead to actions by us or our licensees, distributors, manufacturers, CROs, other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business in foreign countries or our employees who are working abroad that could subject us to investigation or prosecution under such foreign or U.S. laws. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations, which increase our potential liability and require us to expend significant resources to ensure compliance. Our research, development and manufacturing efforts, and those of third parties that research, develop and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf or in collaboration with us, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds and are therefore subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, we, and our collaborators and third-party manufacturers, also may become subject to laws and regulations related to climate change, including the impact of global warming. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant, and the costs of complying with climate change laws also could be significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety or climate change laws or regulations could subject us to substantial fines, penalties or environmental remediation costs, or cause us to lose permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, any of which could adversely affect our operations. Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are made, in part, through direct sales to our customers, which include hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. As a result of adverse global credit and financial market conditions, our customers may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations for invoiced product sales or may delay payments, which could negatively affect our revenues, income and cash flow. In addition, we rely upon third parties for many aspects of our business, including our collaboration partners, wholesale distributors for our products, contract clinical trial providers, research organizations, manufacturers, and third-party suppliers. Because of the tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a delay or disruption in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. The way that we account for our operational and business activities is based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its critical estimates and judgments, including, among others, those related to revenue recognition, including product rebates, chargeback and return accruals; inventories; clinical research costs; investments; business combinations; intangible assets and impairment; income taxes; accounting for stock-based 46 Table of Contents compensation and contingent consideration. Those critical estimates and assumptions are based on our historical experience, future projections, our observance of trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and they form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values and fair values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. If actual results differ from these estimates as a result of unexpected conditions or events occurring which cause us to have to reassess our assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results and the performance of our stock. We could incur substantial costs in connection with product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials utilizing our products and drug candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. For example, changes in laws outside the U.S. are expanding our potential liability for injuries that occur during clinical trials. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the amounts that we desire for a price we are willing to pay. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The cost of defending any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Products liability litigation and other related proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We have also outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable both to service interruptions and to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions. We may be susceptible to third-party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. Service interruptions or security breaches could result in significant financial, legal, business or reputational harm. 47 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including those factors described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and the following: •the investment community's view of the revenue, financial and business projections we provide to the public, and whether we succeed or fail in meeting or exceeding these projections; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •an adverse result in our litigation against Hospira to defend and/or assert our patents in connection with Hospira's efforts to seek approval to market generic versions of CUBICIN; •whether additional third parties submit filings with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of our products and the results of any litigation that we file to defend and/or assert our patents against such third parties; •liabilities in excess of amounts that we have accrued or reserved on our balance sheet; •third-party reports of our sales figures or revenues; •changes in the market, medical need or demand for CUBICIN; •new legislation, laws or regulatory decisions that are adverse to us or our products; •announcements of clinical trial results, regulatory filings, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; •litigation, including stockholder or patent litigation; and •volatility in the markets unrelated to our business and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Several aspects of our corporate governance may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several aspects of our corporate governance might discourage an attempt to acquire us that could otherwise be viewed as beneficial to our stockholders. For example: •as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock; 48 Table of Contents •our directors are divided into three classes and are elected to staggered three-year terms, which prevents our entire Board of Directors from being replaced in any single year or in two consecutive years; and •advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director to our Board of Directors and for a stockholder proposal to be presented at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and •if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely execute on our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 