ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information in and incorporated by reference into this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on the success of our lead product CUBICIN, which may not continue to be widely accepted for the treatment of cSSSI and may not be widely accepted for treatment of the new indication S. aureus bacteremia, including right-sided endocarditis caused by MRSA and MSSA, by physicians, patients, third-party payors, or the medical community in general. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of CUBICIN. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate revenues will depend solely on the commercial success of CUBICIN, which depends upon its continued acceptance by the medical community and the future market demand and medical need for CUBICIN. CUBICIN was approved by the FDA in September 2003 for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, or cSSSI, and launched in the United States in November 2003. On May 25, 2006, the FDA approved CUBICIN for the additional indication of S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates. At year-end 2006, we had just over three years experience as to the sales of this product, and two quarters of sales since the approval of the new indication. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that CUBICIN will continue to be accepted by purchasers in the pharmaceutical market for the treatment of cSSSI or that CUBICIN will be widely accepted for the treatment of S. aureus bacteremia, including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by MRSA and MSSA. Further, CUBICIN currently competes with a number of existing antiinfective drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and potentially will compete against new antiinfective drugs whose approval is anticipated in the near future and others that are in development at other companies. The degree of continued market acceptance of CUBICIN, and our ability to grow revenues from the sale of CUBICIN, depends on a number of additional factors, including: · the continued safety and efficacy of CUBICIN, including any unanticipated adverse reactions to the drug in patients; · the advantages and disadvantages of CUBICIN compared to alternative therapies; · our ability to educate the medical community about the safety and efficacy of CUBICIN; · the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; · the level of access that our sales force has to physicians who are likely to prescribe CUBICIN; · our continued ability to sell CUBICIN in the outpatient and home infusion settings, where a significant portion of the market opportunity exists and is expected to grow; · the market price of CUBICIN as compared to alternative therapies and physicians and third-party payers attitudes towards the relative value of CUBICIN versus other therapies; and · the ability of target organisms to develop resistance to CUBICIN. We cannot be sure that physicians, patients, third-party payors, or the medical community in general will continue to accept and utilize CUBICIN. Even if the medical community accepts that CUBICIN is 20 safe and efficacious for its approved indications and any future approved indications, physicians may choose to restrict the use of CUBICIN due to antibiotic resistance concerns, and both physicians and pharmacy departments may choose other currently-marketed or later-approved antibiotics on the basis of cost, availability of reimbursement, convenience, safety, efficacy, or other factors. Because CUBICIN is the only product that we sell currently and, given our current pipeline drug candidates, will sell for the foreseeable future, any impediment to the success of this product would have a significant effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory sales and marketing capabilities, we may not succeed in commercializing CUBICIN. Until our launch of CUBICIN in November 2003, we had not previously marketed or sold a drug product. In connection with our launch of CUBICIN, we developed our own sales and marketing capabilities in the United States, and we continue to develop those capabilities. We added 36 sales territories during the first quarter of 2006. Therefore, our expanded U.S. sales and marketing team has worked together for a limited period of time. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be successful in marketing CUBICIN on our own in the United States. Our partner in Europe, Novartis, has significant pharmaceutical sales experience but limited experience marketing and selling CUBICIN. Novartis began its launch of CUBICIN in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Benelux, Spain, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany in 2006. Even if we or our international partners obtain additional approvals to market CUBICIN in one or more of the countries in which our partners intend to commercialize CUBICIN pursuant to our license agreement with Novartis or our other current or future collaborations, we cannot guarantee that we or our partners will be successful in marketing CUBICIN in international markets. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, particularly with respect to CUBICIN, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the United States and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, such as larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis technologies and drug products that are more effective or less costly than CUBICIN or any drug candidate that we are currently developing or that we may have or develop, which could render our technology obsolete and noncompetitive. If price competition inhibits the acceptance of CUBICIN, if the reluctance of physicians to switch from existing drug products to CUBICIN inhibits the acceptance of CUBICIN, or if physicians switch to new drug products, or choose to reserve CUBICIN for use in limited circumstances, we will not achieve our business plan. In addition, CUBICIN may face competition from drug candidates currently in clinical development and drug candidates that could receive regulatory approval before CUBICIN in countries outside the United States and the European Union. The competition in the market for therapeutic products that address infectious diseases is intense. CUBICIN faces competition in the United States from commercially available drugs such as vancomycin, marketed generically by Abbott, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and others, Zyvox, marketed by Pfizer, Inc., Synercid, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Tygacil, marketed by Wyeth. In particular, vancomycin has been a widely used and well known antibiotic for over 40 years and is sold in a relatively inexpensive generic form. In addition, in 2007, Pfizer could receive FDA approval to market Dalbavancin in the United States and Theravance, Inc. could receive FDA approval to market Telavancin. Other antibiotics in clinical development could compete with CUBICIN, if approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies, in future years. 21 Any inability on our part to compete with existing drug products or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture CUBICIN, and our commercialization of CUBICIN could be stopped, delayed, or made less profitable if those third parties fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of CUBICIN or fail to do so at acceptable prices. We do not have the capability to manufacture our own CUBICIN active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API. We have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with ACS Dobfar SpA, or ACS, to manufacture and supply us with CUBICIN API for commercial purposes. ACS is our sole provider of our commercial supply of CUBICIN API. Pursuant to our agreement with ACS, ACS currently stores some CUBICIN API at its facilities in Italy. In order to offset the risk of a single-source API supplier, we currently hold a safety stock of API. Any disaster at the facility where we hold this safety stock, such as a fire or loss of power, that causes a loss of this safety stock, would heighten the risk that we face from having only one supplier of API. In addition, we do not have the capability to manufacture our own CUBICIN finished drug product. We have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with both Hospira Worldwide, Inc. or Hospira, and Cardinal Health PTS, LLC, or Cardinal, to manufacture and supply to us finished product. If Cardinal, Hospira, or, in particular, ACS, experiences any significant difficulties in its respective manufacturing processes for CUBICIN API or finished product, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN. Our inability to coordinate the efforts of our third party manufacturing partners, or the lack of capacity available at our third party manufacturing partners, could impair our ability to supply CUBICIN at required levels. Because of the significant regulatory requirements that we would need to satisfy in order to qualify a new bulk or finished product supplier, if we face these or other difficulties with our current suppliers, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of CUBICIN if we decided to transfer the manufacture of CUBICIN to one or more suppliers in an effort to deal with the difficulties. Because the ACS manufacturing facilities are located in Italy, we must ship CUBICIN API to the United States for finishing, packaging and labeling. While in transit, our API, each shipment of which is of significant value, could be lost or damaged. Moreover, at any time after shipment to the United States, our API could be lost or damaged as it is stored at ICS and moves through our finished product manufacturers. Appropriate risk mitigation steps have been taken and insurance is in place. However, depending on when in this process the API is lost or damaged, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our finished product manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage to our API. We are also subject to financial risk from volatile fuel costs due to shipping CUBICIN API to the United States, as well as shipping of finished product within the United States and to our international distribution partners for packaging, labeling and distribution. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of CUBICIN API due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability in Italy. In any such event, the supply of CUBICIN API stored at ACS could also be impacted. While we have reduced the cost of producing CUBICIN in recent years, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to reduce the costs of commercial scale manufacturing of CUBICIN over time. If the manufacturing costs of CUBICIN remain high, it may significantly impact our operating results. In order to reduce costs, we may need to develop and implement process improvements. In order to implement such process improvements, we will need, from time to time, to notify or make submissions with regulatory authorities, and the improvements may be subject to approval by such regulatory authorities. We cannot be sure that such approvals will be granted or granted in a timely fashion. We cannot guarantee 22 that we will be able to enhance and optimize output in our commercial manufacturing process. If we cannot enhance and optimize output, we may not be able to reduce our costs over time. Our ability to grow revenues from the commercialization and sale of CUBICIN will be limited if our partners do not obtain approval to market CUBICIN for any additional indications, or if they do not receive approvals to market CUBICIN at all or, if they fail to fulfill certain post-approval requirements of the FDA relating to CUBICIN. We may seek regulatory approval for additional indications for CUBICIN. To do so, we would need to successfully conduct additional clinical trials and then apply for and obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals. Our revenues may not grow as expected and our business and operating results may be harmed if additional indications for CUBICIN are not approved in the United States. In January 2006, the EMEA granted final approval for marketing CUBICIN in the EU for the treatment of cSSTI, where the presence of susceptible Gram-positive bacteria is confirmed or suspected. In July 2006, Novartis filed an additional MAA with the EMEA for an expanded label in the EU based on the results of our S. aureus bacteremia and endocarditis trial. We cannot be sure that the EMEA will approve this application or do so on a timely basis. Novartis and our other collaborators have submitted or plan on submitting applications for approvals to market CUBICIN in other territories, however, we cannot be sure that any regulatory authority will approve these or any future submissions on a timely basis or at all. In addition, the FDA approval to market CUBICIN in the United States for the treatment of cSSSI requires that we conduct a Phase 4 clinical trial to assess the safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics of CUBICIN in renal impairment patients with cSSSI who also have various degrees of renal impairment, including those that require dialysis. Clinical sites began screening for eligible subjects for our Phase 4 renal impairment study in February 2005. Enrollment of eligible subjects in this study had been difficult and slower than expected. A meeting with the FDA to discuss these issues took place in December 2006. After the meeting, the FDA replaced the original requirement with two steps. The first step is to conduct a Phase 4 clinical trial to assess the pharmacokinetics of CUBICIN in non-infected subjects who are on hemodialysis or Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis. For step two, once this pharmacokinetic study is completed, the FDA will require a Phase 4 study to assess the efficacy and safety of CUBICIN in infected patients (cSSI and S. aureus bacteremia) with moderate and severe (on dialysis) renal impairment. In connection with the recent FDA approval to market CUBICIN in the United States for S. aureus bacteremia, including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, we will be required to design and complete a Phase 4 clinical trial evaluating the potential impact of CUBICIN in combination therapy in the treatment of S. aureus infective endocarditis. The protocol for this trial was submitted in December 2006. We also are working on a pediatric development plan as a follow-up to the single dose Phase 1 pharmacokinetic study in pediatric patients that we completed in 2006 and anticipate a discussion with the FDA on next steps in pediatrics in the first half of 2007. Our business would be seriously harmed if we do not complete these studies and the FDA, as a result, requires us to change the marketing label for CUBICIN in respect to combination therapy or patients with renal impairment. In addition, adverse medical events that occur during the Phase 4 clinical trials or during commercial marketing could result in the temporary or permanent withdrawal of CUBICIN from commercial marketing, which could seriously harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to discover, in-license, or acquire drug candidates, we will not be able to implement our current business strategy. Our approach to drug discovery is unproven. Notwithstanding the investment of significant resources to research and development over the years since Cubist was founded, we have not reached the stage of 23 clinical testing in humans of any drug candidates developed from our drug discovery program. We cannot assure you that we will reach this stage for any internally developed drug candidates or that there will be clinical benefits associated with any drug candidates that we do develop. While we are researching other drug candidates for potential clinical development, most drug candidates never make it to the clinical development stage. Even those that do make it into clinical development have only a small chance of gaining regulatory approval and becoming a drug product. Our drug product, CUBICIN, and most of our other current and former drug candidates are the result of in-licensing patents and technologies from third parties. These in-licensing activities represent a significant expense for Cubist and generally require us to pay royalties to other parties on product sales. Unless we are able to use our drug discovery approach to identify suitable drug candidates, acquisition or in-licensing will be our only source of drug candidates. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire or in-license additional desirable drug candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. In fact, we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for the acquisition or in-licensing of any promising drug candidates from a variety of other companies with interest in the antiinfective and acute care marketplace, many of which have significantly more experience than we have in pharmaceutical development and sales and significantly more financial resources than Cubist. Because of the rising intensity of the level of competition for such products, the cost of acquiring or in-licensing such candidates has grown dramatically in recent years, and candidates are often priced and sold at levels that we cannot afford or we believe are not justified by market potential. Such competition and higher prices is most pronounced for late-stage candidates and already-marketed products, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate impact on our business. If we are unable to discover or acquire promising candidates, we will not be able to implement our business strategy. Even if we succeed in discovering or acquiring drug candidates, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing them. For example in February 2004, we discontinued, due to observed adverse events, clinical development of CAB-175, a parenteral cephalosporin antibiotic that we had in-licensed from Sandoz GmbH. Also, in April 2004, we discontinued, as a result of data from human clinical research studies, development of oral formulations of ceftriaxone, a broad-spectrum antibiotic for which we had licensed the underlying technology from International Health Management Associates and the University of Utah. More recently, we announced in the third quarter of 2006 that we have decided not to make any further investment in the development of HepeX-B while we evaluate our strategic options for this drug candidate. Failure to develop new drug candidates successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If pre-clinical or clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business. Before we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates, our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process that often takes many years. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any drug candidates will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. Companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including companies with greater experience in pre-clinical testing and clinical trials than we have, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. In our own case, clinical trials of CUBICIN for the treatment of community acquired pneumonia failed to demonstrate sufficient efficacy despite promising results in pre-clinical and early clinical trials. Our clinical trials must be carried out under protocols that are acceptable to regulatory authorities and to the committees responsible for clinical studies at the sites at which the studies are conducted. There 24 may be delays in preparing protocols or receiving approval for them that may delay either or both of the start and finish of our clinical trials. Feedback from regulatory authorities or results from earlier stage clinical studies might require modifications or delays in later stage clinical trials or could cause a termination or suspension of drug development. These types of delays or suspensions can result in increased development costs and delayed regulatory approvals. Our ability to secure clinical trial insurance at a reasonable cost could also cause delays. Furthermore, there are a number of additional factors that may cause delays in our clinical trials. We have limited experience in conducting pre-clinical testing or clinical trials. The rate of completion of our clinical trials is also dependent in part on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. For example, the limited number of patients each year who receive liver transplants for Hepatitis B, the target population for our drug candidate HepeX-B, in part led us to discontinue investment in clinical development of HepeX-B. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. For example, our clinical trial to determine the safety and efficacy of using CUBICIN to treat bacteremia with known or suspected endocarditis experienced delays attributable to slow enrollment. In addition, our clinical trials may be delayed by one or more of the following factors: · inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; · inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; · the failure of third-party clinical trial managers to perform their oversight of the trials; · the failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities and records to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices; · inability to enroll study subjects; · our inability to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design that we are able to execute; or · the FDA placing a trial on “clinical hold” or temporarily or permanently stopping a trial for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed, or cancelled, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We will need to obtain regulatory approvals for our other drug candidates, and our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of products resulting from our development efforts will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include lengthy and detailed pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. All of our drug candidates will require governmental approvals for commercialization. To date, we have not obtained government approval in the United States for any drug product other than CUBICIN for the indications of cSSSI and S. aureus bacteremia, including those with right-sided infective endocarditis. Our collaborator, Novartis, has received approval for marketing CUBICIN in the European Union for the indication of cSSTI and in Argentina for cSSSI, our collaborator, TTY Biopharm Co. Ltd has received approval for marketing CUBICIN in Taiwan for cSSSI, and our collaborator, Medison Pharma, Ltd., has received approval for marketing CUBICIN in Israel for the same indications for which we have approval in the United States. We and our partners are pursuing approvals for CUBICIN in various other countries. Pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of our drug candidates will be subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA and corresponding 25 foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of foreign regulatory agency requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. No product can receive FDA approval unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those drug candidates. The results of our clinical testing of a drug candidate may cause us to suspend, terminate or redesign our clinical testing program for that drug candidate. We cannot be sure when we, independently or with our collaborators, might be in a position to submit additional drug candidates for regulatory review. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could cause them to be repeated or extended, or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. In addition, data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval and can even effect the commercial success of a product that is already on the market based on earlier trials, such as CUBICIN. In addition, we cannot be sure that regulatory approval will be granted for drug candidates that we submit for regulatory review. Moreover, if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed as well as additional post-approval requirements. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional drug products will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. The FDA may change its approval requirements or policies for antibiotics, or apply interpretations to its requirements or policies, in a manner that could delay or prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates or any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek in the United States. Regulatory requirements for the approval of antibiotics in the United States may change in a manner that requires us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials, which may delay or prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates or any additional indications for CUBICIN that we may seek. Historically, the FDA has not required placebo-controlled clinical trials for approval of antibiotics but instead have relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic treatment and it must be shown that the product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment by a defined margin. In 2006, the FDA, for certain types of antibiotics, refused to accept successfully completed non-inferiority studies as the basis for approval. Instead, the FDA is requiring for some antibiotic products, or other trials involving comparator antibiotics, placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo before considering approval. Conducting placebo-controlled trials for antibiotics can be time-consuming, expensive, and difficult to complete. Institutional review boards may not grant approval for placebo-controlled trials because of ethical concerns about denying some participating patients access to any antibiotic therapy during the course of the trial. Even if institutional review board approval is obtained, it may be difficult to enroll patients in placebo-controlled trials because certain patients would not receive antibiotic therapy. In addition, the FDA has not issued guidance articulating 26 new standards or policies for demonstrating the safety and efficacy of antibiotics, and has not indicated whether all antibiotics would require superiority studies for FDA approval. The lack of guidance from the FDA creates uncertainties about the standards for the approval of antibiotics in the United States. These factors could delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of any new antibiotic product candidates or any additional indications for CUBICIN in the United States for which the FDA requires placebo-controlled trials. Even if we complete these trials, we may not be able to obtain adequate evidence of safety or efficacy to support approval. Moreover, recent events, including complications arising from FDA-approved drugs have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in new legislation by the U.S. Congress and increased caution by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory approvals. In particular, non-inferiority studies have come under scrutiny from Congress, in part because of a congressional investigation as to the safety of Ketek®, an antibiotic approved by the FDA on the basis of non-inferiority studies. Certain key members of Congress have asked the U.S. Government Accountabilty Office (GAO), an independent, nonpartisan arm of Congress, to investigate the FDA’s reliance on non-inferiority studies as a basis for approval. Congress may draft, introduce, and pass legislation that could significantly change the approval of antibiotics by the FDA. The increased scrutiny by Congress and regulatory authorities may significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, as well as impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing requirements on pharmaceutical products generally, and particularly in our areas of focus. Any delay in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing any new antibiotic product candidates and any additional indications for CUBICIN, generating revenues, and achieving and sustaining profitability. If we are unable to generate revenues from any drug products other than CUBICIN, our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited. Apart from CUBICIN, we have no other drug products that have been approved by the FDA, and our current pipeline does not include any drug candidates that are in clinical development. Because of the long development time of drug candidates, even once they are in clinical development, none of the drug candidates that we are currently developing, even if one were to overcome the significant hurdles of a pre-clinical candidate ever making it to the commercial market, would generate revenues for many years. Unless and until we are able to develop, in-license or acquire other successful drug products, we will continue to rely solely on CUBICIN for our sales revenues. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future drug candidates to market, or to acquire any marketed drug products, our ability to create long-term shareholder value may be limited. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect certain proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of CUBICIN, our other drug candidates and our research technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent protection for CUBICIN, our drug candidates, and our research technologies and successfully enforcing and defending these patents against third party challenges. We consider that in the aggregate our unpatented proprietary technology, patent applications, patents and licenses under patents owned by third parties are of material importance to our operations. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The actual protection afforded by a patent can vary from country to country and may depend upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions are continually developing, both in the United States and in other important markets outside the United 27 States. Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, and we cannot predict the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to our patents or to other companies’ patents. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented proprietary technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. The primary composition of matter patent covering CUBICIN in the United States has expired. We own or have licensed rights to a limited number of patents directed toward methods of administration and methods of manufacture of CUBICIN. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications for CUBICIN, our other drug candidates, or our research technologies or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future; nor can we be sure that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us in the future will be commercially useful in protecting CUBICIN, our other drug candidates or our other technology. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We cannot be certain that the named applicants or inventors of the subject matter covered by our patent applications or patents, whether directly owned by us or licensed to us, were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Third parties may challenge, infringe, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us. Even if we have valid and enforceable patents, these patents still may not provide sufficient protection against competing products or processes. Of particular concern for a company like ours, having one marketed product, is that third parties may seek to market generic versions of CUBICIN by filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA in which they claim that patents protecting CUBICIN owned or licensed by us are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed, a so-called Paragraph IV filing. From 1997 through 2002, about one third of all new chemical entities, such as daptomycin, the chemical ingredient in CUBICIN, have been the subject of a Paragraph IV filing. September 2007 will be the first opportunity under United States patent law, for a generic company to make a Paragraph IV filing. If such a filing is made, we may need to defend and/or assert our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. In any of these types of proceedings, a court or other agency with jurisdiction may find our patents invalid and/or unenforceable. If our collaborators or consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Such inventions and/or processes will not necessarily become our property but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we market our drug products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property, thereby easing our competitors’ ability to compete with us in such countries. We have and may in the future engage in collaborations, sponsored research agreements, and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions that have received and may receive funding from U.S. government agencies. As a result of these arrangements, the U.S. government or certain third parties may have rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations and agreements as required by law or by such agreements. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent that we maintain a competitive advantage by relying on trade secret and unpatented proprietary information, such competitive advantage may be compromised if others independently develop the same or similar technology, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary information in part through confidentiality provisions and invention assignment provisions in agreements with our collaborative partners, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements could be breached and we might not have adequate remedies for any such breaches. 28 Our trademarks, CUBICIN and Cubist in the aggregate are considered to be material to our business. These trademarks are covered by registrations or pending applications for registration in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. We cannot assure you that the trademark protection that we have pursued or will pursue in the future will afford us significant commercial protection. Beyond the specific concerns addressed above, intellectual property laws and regulations are constantly changing, and vary amongst different jurisdictions around the world, in ways that may affect our ability to protect or enforce our rights. Third-party patent and intellectual property rights may interfere with our ability to commercialize drug products and research technologies. Because the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, there can be no assurance that the patents owned and licensed by us, or any future patents, will ensure that others will not be issued patents in the United States and elsewhere that may prevent the sale of our drug products or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Moreover, to the extent that any of our drug products or methods infringe the patents of a third party, or that our patents or future patents fail to give us an exclusive position in the subject matter claimed in those patents, we will be adversely affected. Patent disputes are frequent and can preclude the commercialization of products. If our drug candidates, drug products, or processes are found to infringe the patents of others or are found to impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, our development, manufacture and sale of any such infringing drug candidates or drug products could be severely restricted or prohibited. We may be unable to avoid infringement of a third-party patent and may have to obtain a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of a patent in a court of law or agency of competent jurisdiction. A license may be unavailable on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to prevail in any such litigation or devote sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. If we do not obtain an appropriate license, if we are found liable for patent infringement or trade secret misappropriation, or if we are not able to have such patents declared invalid and/or unenforceable, we may be liable for significant monetary damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market, and/or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use, or sale of products or methods of treatment requiring such licenses. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. Historically, we have been highly dependent on our management and scientific and medical personnel. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at Cubist, we have provided options that vest over time. The value to employees of these options is significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. We have also provided retention letters to a limited number of key employees. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and medical teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm our business or financial results. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior scientific and medical personnel. Other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have 29 greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than what we have to offer. If we are unable to grow our business according to our business plan, including by developing or acquiring additional drug products, we may become a less attractive place to work for our existing employees and for high quality candidates. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can discover, develop and commercialize drug candidates will be limited. We have collaborative relationships that may expose us to a number of risks. We have entered into, and anticipate continuing to enter into, collaborative arrangements with multiple third parties to discover, test, manufacture and market drug candidates and drug products. In October 2003, we entered into an international license and product supply agreement with Novartis to seek regulatory approvals and commercialize CUBICIN in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, India and certain Central American, South American and Middle Eastern countries. In April 2006, Novartis AG acquired Chiron. In December 2006, we entered into a license and product supply agreement with AstraZeneca to seek regulatory approvals and commercialize CUBICIN in China and other countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We have also entered into agreements with partners for the commercialization of CUBICIN in Israel, Taiwan, Canada and South Korea. In addition to commercial collaborations, we collaborate with a variety of other companies for manufacturing, clinical trials, clinical and preclinical testing, and research activities. Collaborations such as these are necessary for us to research, develop, and commercialize drug candidates. We cannot be sure that we will be able to establish any additional collaborative relationships on terms acceptable to us or that we will be able to work successfully with our existing collaborators or their successors. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks including the following: · our collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected; · the focus of, amount and timing of resources dedicated by our collaborators to their respective collaborations with us is not under our control; · some drug candidates discovered in collaboration with us may be viewed by our collaborators as competitive with their own drug candidates or drug products; · our collaborators may not elect to proceed with the development of drug candidates that we believe to be promising; · disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation, or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would be time-consuming and expensive; and · some of our collaborators might develop independently, or with others, drug products that could compete with ours. Collaborative arrangements with third parties are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish collaborations on terms favorable to us or working successfully with our collaborators will have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. 30 A variety of risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships outside the United States, and we expect CUBICIN to be marketed worldwide through licensees and distributors. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries. Associated risks of conducting operations in foreign countries include: · differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; · the potential for so-called parallel importing; · unexpected adverse events to CUBICIN that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the United States; · unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; · economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; · compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; · foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; · foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; · workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; · production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and · business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, and natural disasters in other countries. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical trials for CUBICIN and expect to do so with respect to other drug candidates, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers in the conduct of our clinical trials for CUBICIN and expect to do so with respect to other drug candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the investigators are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the further development, approval and commercialization of CUBICIN and that of future drug candidates. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses. Since we began operations, we have incurred substantial net losses in every fiscal period until the third quarter of 2006. We incurred a net loss of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 31 $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $484.2 million. These losses have resulted from costs associated with conducting research and development, conducting clinical trials, commercialization efforts and associated administrative costs. We cannot be certain that we will not incur additional operating losses related to the continued development and commercialization of CUBICIN, the development of our other drug candidates, as well as investments in other product opportunities. As a result, we cannot make specific predictions about our future profitability. If we fail to maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. We may require additional funds. Until the third quarter of 2006, we were not a self-sustaining business, and we cannot guarantee that certain economic and strategic factors will not require us to seek additional funds. We believe that the net proceeds from our recent convertible debt offering, our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and the anticipated cash flow from revenues will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses, debt obligations and capital requirements under our current business plan for the foreseeable future. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we continue our commercialization of CUBICIN, actively seek to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates, and expand our research and development activities and infrastructure. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because of unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond our control. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to our shareholders or us. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or other arrangements with collaborators. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be available on acceptable or affordable terms. Our annual debt service obligations on our $350.0 million 2.25% subordinated convertible notes due in June 2013 are approximately $7.9 million per year in interest payments. We may add additional lease lines to finance capital expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We may also be forced to obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain additional capital, if needed, we will not be able to execute our current business plan successfully. We may undertake additional strategic acquisitions in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. Although we have limited experience in acquiring businesses and have completed only one business acquisition since our inception, we may acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management’s attention from current operations; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business, its customers and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; dealing with unfamiliar laws, customs and practices in foreign jurisdictions; and the effectiveness of the acquired company’s internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. As well, 32 in paying for an acquisition we may deplete our cash resources or dilute our shareholder base by issuing additional shares. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation assumptions and our models for an acquired product or business may be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to overvalue an acquisition target. There is also the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. If we acquire businesses with promising drug candidates or technologies, we may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to move one or more drug candidates through pre-clinical and/or clinical development to regulatory approval and commercialization We cannot assure you that, following an acquisition, we will achieve revenues, specific net income or loss levels that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to acquire any businesses, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. Our business may suffer if we fail to manage our growth effectively. If our potential drug candidates progress in development or we are able to continue expanding the commercialization of CUBICIN, we will continue to build our organization and require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. Our ability to develop and grow the commercialization of our products, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to manage our continued growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Industry We may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our products or processes that could result in liability for damage or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and interference and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The types of situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings include: · We or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights; · We or our collaborators may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties’ patents; · If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we or our collaborators may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention; · If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we and our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; · If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our brand names infringe their trademarks, we and our collaborators will need to defend against such proceedings; and 33 · If third parties file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of our products prior to expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by us, we may need to defend our patents, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. An adverse outcome in any litigation or other proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology that is at issue or to license the technology from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Competitors may develop drug products that make our drug products obsolete, less cost effective or otherwise less attractive to use. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies for treatment. Even if we are successful in developing effective drug products, new drug products introduced after we commence marketing of any drug product may be safer, more effective, less expensive, or easier to administer than our drug products. Revenues generated by products we currently market or that we successfully develop and for which we obtain regulatory approval depend on reimbursement from third-party payers such that if reimbursement for our products is reduced or is insufficient, there could be a negative impact on the utilization of our products. Acceptable levels of reimbursement for costs of developing and manufacturing drug products and treatments related to those drug products by government authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations, such as HMOs, can have an affect on the successful commercialization of, and attracting collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our drug products and drug candidates. In both the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, legislative and regulatory actions can affect health care systems and reimbursement for our products. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, and its implementing regulations, altered the manner in which Medicare sets payment levels for many prescription drugs, including CUBICIN. Under this legislation, beginning in 2005, Medicare reimbursement for CUBICIN was based on average sales price, or the ASP, rather than average wholesale price in both the physician office and hospital outpatient settings. This resulted in lower payment rates in 2005 as compared to 2004. Moreover, under this payment methodology the payment rate for CUBICIN is set on a quarterly basis based upon the ASP for previous quarters, and significant downward fluctuations in such reimbursement rate could negatively affect sales of CUBICIN. In addition, further changes to this methodology are possible. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory actions affecting health care systems. The current uncertainty and the potential for adoption of additional changes could affect the timing and amount of our product revenue, our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. Medicare payments for CUBICIN can influence pricing in the non-Medicare market as third party payers may base their reimbursement on the Medicare rate. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our drug products. Any reduction in demand would adversely affect our business. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to obtain collaborators to manufacture and commercialize drug 34 products, and may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our own manufacture and commercialization of any future drug products. Another relevant aspect of this legislation was the establishment of an expanded, voluntary Medicare prescription drug benefit effective January 1, 2006, commonly known as Medicare Part D. Although Cubist was already and continues to be covered by Medicare Part B, and the Part D benefit was intended to cover products that were not previously covered by Medicare, such as oral medications, CUBICIN is covered under this benefit by some of the private insurance companies that contract with Medicare to offer Part D plans. These companies have considerable discretion as to the drugs provided through such offerings. Although we do not expect many Medicare beneficiaries to obtain CUBICIN through Medicare Part D (and the preexisting Medicare coverage of CUBICIN will continue unchanged), some products that are competitive with CUBICIN but were not previously covered by Medicare are now covered by Medicare through Part D. If such new coverage causes physicians to prescribe products competitive with CUBICIN instead of CUBICIN, our product sales could suffer. Because Part D has been implemented for only one year the significant variations in drugs offered by plans and beneficiary cost sharing obligations among the plans, and the limited information available on experience to date, we cannot yet conclude what impact the establishment of Medicare Part D has had or will have on sales of CUBICIN. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as possible legislative changes to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any drug products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Outside the United States, certain countries set prices in connection with the regulatory process. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborators or may negatively impact our sales revenue in those countries. Our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. Regulatory approvals in the United States and elsewhere can be conditioned on certain factors that may delay the marketing of drug products and increase the cost of developing, manufacturing, or marketing drug products. Our company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including good manufacturing practices, or GMP, regulations, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. In addition, if there are any modifications to a drug product that we are developing or commercializing, further regulatory approval will be required. Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug product, us or our manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug product from the market. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulation may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. 35 Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable “fraud and abuse” laws and regulations and other applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we sell CUBICIN, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive laws and regulation, including but not limited to, health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based upon what we believe are current best practices, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our pharmaceutical products. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Our products and the clinical trials utilizing our products and drug candidates may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage that we believe is adequate for our current operations, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our use of hazardous materials, chemicals, microorganisms and radioactive compounds exposes us to potential liabilities. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses, bacteria and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. Any such violation and the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine could adversely effect our operations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or a determination of non-compliance, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines. If we are unable to adequately protect our confidential, electronically stored, transmitted and communicated information, it could significantly harm our business. In our business, we store electronically large amounts of scientific, technical, employee, customer and other data. The amount of confidential, digital information that we store and that we transmit and communicate to third parties continues to grow as technology continues to evolve. If we have inadequate security to protect this information from a breach and/or if such a breach should occur, crucial confidential information about our research, development, employees, customers and future prospects could be unintentionally disclosed. In addition, our information could be improperly disclosed if we are unable to restrict what third parties with whom we share such information may do with the information, or how long 36 they may access it. If our competitors were able to acquire our confidential information, our business and future prospects could be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to downward fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: · failure to meet or exceed revenue and financial projections we provide to the public; · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community; · failure of third party reporters of sales data to accurately report our sales figures; · adverse results or delays in clinical trials; · our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; · inability to obtain adequate product supply for any approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; · the termination of a collaboration or the inability to establish additional collaborations; · adverse regulatory decisions; · unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of CUBICIN; · introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; · announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; · expectations in the financial markets that Cubist may or may not be the target of potential acquirors; · our failure to develop additional drug candidates and commercialize additional drug products; · issuances of debt or equity securities; · significant lawsuits, including stockholder litigation; · the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community; and · other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would harm our business. 37 If our officers, directors and certain stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to significantly influence our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of January 1, 2007, our directors, executive officers and greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 42% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence the election of all of our directors and to significantly influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, prevent or delay a takeover, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of our stockholder rights plan and provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 