Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to develop or introduce innovative products and technologies that gain market acceptance and satisfy consumer preferences, our current and future revenues will be adversely affected. Our current and future performance is dependent upon the continued popularity of our existing products and technologies and our ability to develop and introduce new products and technologies that gain market acceptance and satisfy consumer preferences. The popularity of any of our gaming products and technologies may decline over time as consumer preferences change or as new, competing products or new technologies are introduced by our competitors. If we are unable to develop or market innovative products or technologies in the future, or if our current products or technologies become obsolete or otherwise noncompetitive, our ability to sustain current revenues from our existing customers or to generate additional revenues from existing or new customers would be adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially reduce our profitability and growth potential. In addition, the introduction of new and innovative products and technologies by our competitors that are successful in meeting consumer preferences also could materially reduce our competitiveness and adversely affect our revenues and our business. The development of new products and technologies requires a significant investment by us prior to any of the products or technologies becoming available for the market. New products, such as new games and refresher versions of our existing games, may not gain popularity with gaming patrons, or may not maintain any popularity achieved. In the event any new products or technologies fail to gain market acceptance or appeal to consumer preferences, we may be unable to recover the cost of developing these products or technologies. If we are unable to rapidly develop new technologies, our products and technologies may become obsolete or noncompetitive. The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. In - 15 - Table of Contents addition to requiring a strong pipeline of proprietary games, our success is dependent upon new product development and technological advancements, including the continued development of cashless technology, table player tracking technologies, central server-based products and technologies, progressive jackpot systems and integrated management systems. The markets in which we compete are subject to frequent technological changes, and one or more of our competitors may develop alternative technologies or products for bonusing, progressive jackpots, slot accounting, cashless technology, player tracking or game promotions, or a superior game platform which may not be made available to us. While we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products at a rapid enough pace. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If our current or proposed products or technologies do not receive regulatory approval, our revenue and business prospects will be adversely affected. Our products and technologies are in various stages of development. Our development efforts are dependent on factors such as obtaining requisite governmental approvals. Each of these products and technologies requires separate regulatory approval in each market in which we do business, and this regulatory approval may either not be granted at all or not be granted in a timely manner, for reasons primarily outside of our control. In addition, we cannot predict with any accuracy which jurisdictions or markets, if any, will accept and which authorities will approve the operation of our gaming products and technologies, or the timing of any such approvals. A lack of regulatory approval for our new games or other products and technologies, or refresher versions of our existing games or other products and technologies, or delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, will adversely affect our revenues and business prospects. For example, RFID (radio frequency identification), CJS (Casino Jackpot Station) and central server-based gaming represent three of our key strategic initiatives over the next several years. While we are moving forward with the regulators in various jurisdictions to obtain required approvals, we are at various stages in the approval and development process for each initiative. We cannot assure you that we will receive the necessary approvals in all of the jurisdictions we have sought approval nor can we assure you that there will not be any production delays in developing and distributing these products and technologies. Any delay in production or in the regulatory process, or a denial of regulatory approval altogether, for any one of these initiatives will adversely impact our revenues and business. If our products or technologies currently in development do not achieve commercial success, our revenue and business prospects will be adversely affected. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product and technological development opportunities, there can be no assurance that such products or technologies will come to fruition or become successful. Furthermore, while a number of those products and technologies are being tested, we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially viable and available, if at all. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial introduction that could delay or prevent us from generating revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products or technologies currently in development will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to technological changes or offer products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position. We may not be successful in forming or maintaining strategic alliances with other companies, which could negatively affect our product offerings and sales. Our business is becoming increasingly dependent on forming or maintaining strategic alliances with other companies, and we may not be able to form or maintain alliances that are important to ensure that our products and technologies are compatible with third-party products and technologies, to enable us to license our products and technologies to potential new customers and into potential new markets, and to enable us to continue to enter into new agreements with our existing customers. There can be no assurance that we will identify the best alliances for our business or that we will be able to maintain existing relationships with other companies or enter into new alliances with other companies on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to maintain or establish successful strategic alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. If we cannot form and maintain significant strategic alliances with other companies as our target markets and technology evolve, the sales opportunities for our products and technologies could deteriorate. If any conflicts arise between us and any of our alliance partners, our reputation, revenues and cash position could be significantly harmed. Conflicts may arise between us and our alliance partners, such as conflicts concerning licensing and royalty fees, development or distribution obligations, the achievement of milestones or the ownership or protection of intellectual property developed by the alliance or otherwise. Any such disagreement between us and an alliance partner could result in one or more of the following, each of which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues and a reduction in our cash position: - 16 - Table of Contents • unwillingness on the part of an alliance partner to pay us license fees or royalties we believe are due to us under the strategic alliance; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our strategic alliance activities, which could result in litigation, permit third parties to use certain of our intellectual property or prevent us from utilizing such intellectual property rights and from entering into additional strategic alliances; • unwillingness on the part of an alliance partner to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; • slowing or cessation of an alliance partner’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our products or technologies; • delays in the introduction or commercialization of products or technologies; or • termination or non-renewal of the strategic alliance. In addition, certain of our current or future alliance partners may have the right to terminate the strategic alliance on short notice. Accordingly, in the event of any conflict between the parties, our alliance partners may elect to terminate the agreement or alliance prior to completion of its original term. If a strategic alliance is terminated prematurely, we would not realize the anticipated benefits of the strategic alliance, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community may be harmed and our stock price may decline. In addition, in certain of our current or future strategic alliances, we may agree not to develop products independently, or with any third party, directly competitive with the subject matter of our strategic alliances. Our strategic alliances may have the effect of limiting the areas of research, development and/or commercialization that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Under certain circumstances, however, our alliance partners, may research, develop, or commercialize, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these strategic alliances. For example, as part of our joint development arrangement with IGT and Shuffle Master, we agreed not to manufacture or sell our intelligent shoe products for a three-year period. If our remaining license agreements with Hasbro, Inc. and other content providers are terminated or are not renewed, or if we breach our obligations under any license agreement, our revenues could be reduced. Revenues from our table and slot games segment are derived primarily from the popularity of our branded slot games, including licensed brands such as Clue®, Ripley’s Believe It or Not!® and Trivial Pursuit®. We developed these slot games under multi-year license agreements, which contain options to renew, with Hasbro and Ripley Entertainment and have developed other slot games under agreements with other branded content providers. We are also in the process of developing additional games under similar agreements with separate licensors for additional branded content, including an agreement with Paws, Inc. for use of the Garfield® property. Any termination or failure to renew a license agreement with our branded content providers could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues and operations. For example, Hasbro declined to renew the Yahtzee and Battleship brands with us as of December 15, 2004. While we believe that we will be able to replace this content with other popular branded slot games, our failure to do so could materially affect our future revenues. In addition, we are engaged in litigation with Hasbro related to a claim for past due royalties on slot game titles that we licensed from Hasbro, and we cannot assure you that this litigation will be resolved or that Hasbro will renew other license agreements with us for other Hasbro brands. For example, in the second quarter of 2006 our Clue® and Trivial Pursuit® license arrangements with Hasbro will expire unless they are renewed with the consent of both parties. Each license agreement contains provisions that obligate us to perform in a certain manner. If we breach these obligations, the licensor may terminate the license agreement following a specified period that varies from immediate termination to thirty days, depending upon the agreement and the type of breach. In addition, any breach of our obligations may adversely affect our relationship with the licensor, as well as deter the licensor and other third parties from licensing additional brands to us. Our ability to renew our license agreements with Hasbro, Paws or Ripley Entertainment for an additional term is conditioned upon our having paid minimum royalties to the licensor during the applicable initial term. If we do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the minimum royalties or otherwise are unable to renew any of our license agreements with the licensor, our future revenues may be materially reduced. Our failure to protect, maintain and enforce our existing intellectual property or secure, maintain and enforce such rights for new proprietary technology could adversely affect our future growth and success. - 17 - Table of Contents Our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property is essential to our success. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Certain of our existing and proposed products are covered by patents issued in the United States, which may differ from patent protection in foreign jurisdictions, where our intellectual property may not receive the same degree of protection as it would in the United States. In addition, in many countries intellectual property rights are conditioned upon obtaining registrations for trademarks, patents and other rights, and we have not obtained such registrations in all relevant jurisdictions. Failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could significantly impair our competitive advantage and adversely affect our revenues and the value of our common stock. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to secure our rights in any new proprietary technology that we develop. We file trademark, copyright and patent applications to protect intellectual property rights for many of our trademarks, proprietary games, gaming products and improvements to these products. For example, we applied for patents for our knowledge-based bonus features and other game enhancements which have been utilized in our Think Big® game series, which includes our Ripley’s Believe It or Not!®, Clue® and Trivial Pursuit® games. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not acted upon all of these applications and may determine not to issue patents on some or all of our pending patent applications. Our failure to obtain federal protection for our patents and trademarks could cause us to become subject to additional competition and could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and operations. In addition, any of the patents that we own, acquire or license may be determined to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable and would, in such case, not provide any protection with respect to the associated intellectual property rights. If we are unable to effectively promote our trademarks, our revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We intend to promote the trademarks that we own and license from third parties to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and to build goodwill with our customers. These promotion efforts will require certain expenditures on our part. However, our efforts may be unsuccessful and these trademarks may not result in the competitive advantage that we anticipate. In such event, our revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the costs and expenses related to the promotion of such trademarks. Our competitors may develop non-infringing products or technologies that adversely affect our future growth and revenues. It is possible that our competitors will produce proprietary games or gaming products similar to ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technologies. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technologies or otherwise obtain access to the unpatented technologies upon which we rely for future growth and revenues. In addition, to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements or agreements containing confidentiality provisions. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Failure to meaningfully protect our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information could adversely affect our future growth and revenues. We may incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property exists in our industry. Competitors and other third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights. Alternatively, competitors may allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights. For example, Interactive Systems Worldwide, Inc. sued us for patent infringement on December 14, 2005. Any claims, even those made by third parties which are without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend resulting in the diversion of management’s attention and resources; • cause one or more of our patents to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid, or require us to cease making, licensing or using products or systems that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; or • require us to spend significant time and money to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products or systems if feasible. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of various legal proceedings in which we are involved. If we are found to be infringing on a third-party’s intellectual property rights, we may be forced to discontinue certain products or technologies, pay damages or obtain a license to use the intellectual property, any of which may adversely affect our future growth and revenues. If we are found to be infringing on a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be forced to discontinue certain products or the use of certain competitive technologies or features, which may have a material adverse effect on our future growth and revenues. - 18 - Table of Contents Alternatively, if the company holding the applicable patent is willing to give us a license that allows us to develop, manufacture or market our products or technologies, we may be required to obtain a license from them. Such a license may require the payment of a license, royalty or similar fee or payment and may limit our ability to market new products or technologies, which would adversely affect our future growth and revenues. In addition, if we are found to have committed patent infringement we may be obligated to pay damages or be subject to other remedies, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Some of our products may contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open source licenses requiring us to make our source code available to third parties and potentially granting third parties certain rights to the software. Some of our products may contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open source licenses. Some of these licenses may require that we make our source code related to the licensed open source software available to third parties and/or license such software under the terms of a particular open source license potentially granting third parties certain rights to the software. We may incur legal expenses in defending against claims that we did not abide by such licenses. If our defenses are unsuccessful we may be enjoined from distributing products containing such open source software, be required to make the relevant source code available to third parties, be required to grant third parties certain rights to the software, be subject to potential damages or be required to remove the open source software from our products. Any of these outcomes could disrupt our distribution and sale of related products and adversely affect our revenues and the value of our common stock. We depend upon our ability to obtain licenses for popular intellectual properties and our failure to secure such licenses with acceptable terms could adversely affect our future growth and success. Our future success depends upon our ability to obtain licenses for popular intellectual properties. Clue®, Ripley’s Believe It Or Not!®, Trivial Pursuit®, Garfield®, and Wink’s Survey of America® are among the intellectual properties that we currently license from third parties. We may not be successful in obtaining licenses for popular intellectual property. Even if we are successful in these efforts, we may not have the ability to adapt or deploy them for the development of casino games, as to the timing or cost of such development efforts or as to the commercial success of the resulting games. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is conducting an inspection of our external auditors BDO Seidman LLP and their audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004. The PCAOB is conducting an inspection of BDO Seidman LLP, our external auditors. As part of this inspection, the PCAOB has selected, among others, to review BDO Seidman’s audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004. The PCAOB has requested additional information and analysis from BDO Seidman regarding our recognition of revenue in connection with a strategic licensing transaction we entered into in 2004. In addition, the PCAOB has requested information regarding certain other revenue transactions in 2004 and 2005. We believe that our accounting methods for these transactions are correct. However, in the event the PCAOB determines that a different method should have been used to report this financial information, we may be required to treat this revenue in a manner different than what has been recorded in our historical financial statements. The PCAOB’s inspection of BDO Seidman is ongoing and there can be no assurance as to when it will be completed. In addition, we cannot assure you that in the course of this inspection, the PCAOB will not identify additional information contained in our historical financial statements which it believes could have been reported differently, or the prospective impact of any such items on our financial statements. We operate in a highly competitive market and may be unable to successfully compete which may harm our operating results. We compete with a number of developers, manufacturers and distributors of similar products and technologies. Many of our competitors are large companies that have greater access to capital, marketing and development resources than we have. Larger competitors may have more resources to devote to research and development and may be able to more efficiently and effectively obtain regulatory approval. In addition, competitors with a larger installed base of games have an advantage in retaining the most space and best placement in casinos. These competitors may also have the advantage of being able to convert their installed games to newer models in order to maintain their share of casino floor space. Similarly, the casino management systems market is highly competitive. Pricing, product features and functionality, accuracy and reliability are key factors in determining a provider’s success in selling its system. Because of the high initial costs of installing a computerized monitoring system, customers for such systems generally do not change suppliers once they have installed a system. This may make it difficult for us to attract customers who have existing computerized monitoring systems. Our business and revenues will be negatively affected if we are unable to compete effectively in the markets for our products and technologies. New competitors also may enter our key markets. Numerous factors may affect our ability to successfully compete and thus affect our future performance, including: • the relative popularity of our existing products and our ability to develop and introduce appealing new products; • our ability to obtain adequate space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors; - 19 - Table of Contents • our ability to maintain existing regulatory approvals and to obtain further regulatory approvals as needed; and • our ability to enforce our existing intellectual property rights and to adequately secure, maintain and protect rights for new products. Our cash flow from operations and available credit may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements and, as a result, we could be dependent upon future financing, which may not be available. Historically, we have not generated sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our capital requirements and have relied upon debt and equity financing arrangements to satisfy such requirements. Should such financing arrangements be required but unavailable in the future, this will pose a significant risk to our liquidity and ability to meet operational and other cash requirements. Our bank credit facility with CapitalSource expired on December 15, 2005. We have not replaced this credit facility. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure a replacement credit facility on terms acceptable to us, this may pose a significant risk to our liquidity and ability to meet operational and other cash requirements. As part of our alliance with IGT, we entered into a joint development agreement and gave IGT an option to purchase $40 million of our 6% senior subordinated convertible notes. On February 28, 2006, we provided IGT with requisite notice that we were prepared to issue these notes. IGT determined not to purchase the notes at this time, and by its terms the option lapsed. The table and slot games business segment has historically been capital-intensive, and while we have repositioned our business away from assembling hardware, we still maintain and refurbish the slot machines we currently have in the field, so our business may remain capital-intensive depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to continue to use the existing slot machines we own or lease from a third party, or our success in providing popular and innovative game content ideas for slot machines such that a manufacturer of slot machines would agree to provide slot machines which incorporate our game content in exchange for a portion of revenues earned from the sale or leasing arrangement with a casino. If we are not successful in these areas, among others, we may be required to continue expending significant capital outlays related to this business segment. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to fund these outlays or to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to changing demands of customers and competitors. If gaming operators cancel the placement of our games or do not agree to recurring revenue arrangements, our revenues and growth could be adversely affected. Under the terms of our current arrangements with gaming operators, our installed base of games may be replaced by competing products under certain circumstances, thus ending the recurring revenue stream or arrangement with such operator. Such replacement may result from competition, changes in economic conditions, technological requirements, obsolescence or declining popularity. For example, from June 30, 2005 to December 31, 2005, our installed base of slot games decreased 67% from 1,024 to 336. A further decrease in our installed base of games would adversely affect our revenues and future growth. In addition, if customers replace our games and bonusing systems, our efforts to maintain and expand the number of installed proprietary games through enhancement of existing games and bonusing systems, introduction of new games and bonusing systems, and other features and the provision of superior customer service may not be successful. Furthermore, prominent placement of our games on the casino floor is necessary to maximize the amount of recurring revenues derived from each of our games. Our leases do not require the gaming operators to place our games in prominent locations. If we fail to maintain prominent locations in casinos, our games may not be played, resulting in a reduction of our recurring revenues. We have historically placed our proprietary games in casinos primarily under leases which provide for a fixed rental payment or on the basis of revenue participation in the game’s operating results. Most of these lease agreements are for 12 to 36 months and are subject to cancellation by the operator that may involve 30 or 60-day prior notice of cancellation. We will continue to follow this model to the extent that there is interest amongst our customers. The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must adhere to various regulations and maintain our licenses to continue our operations. The distribution of gaming products and conduct of gaming operations are extensively regulated by various domestic and foreign gaming authorities. Although the laws of different jurisdictions vary in their technical requirements and are amended from time-to-time, virtually all jurisdictions in which we operate require registrations, licenses, findings of suitability, permits and other approvals, as well as documentation of qualifications, including evidence of the integrity, financial stability and responsibility of our officers, directors, major stockholders and key personnel. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject, the applicable domestic or foreign gaming authority may impose significant penalties and restrictions on our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our revenues and future business. See “Item 1. Business – Government Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the regulations that apply to our business. - 20 - Table of Contents Future authorizations or regulatory approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all which would adversely affect our results of operations. We will be subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers may operate in the future. Future authorizations or approvals required by domestic and foreign gaming authorities may not be granted at all or as timely as we would like, and current or future authorizations may not be renewed. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate new products or new technologies or to operate our current products or technologies in new markets. For example, our Ticket-In Ticket-Out (TITO) feature for slot games has not yet been approved in Nevada. If we are not able to obtain TITO approval in Nevada, our ability to generate revenue may be significantly impaired. In either case, our results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Gaming authorities can also place burdensome conditions and limits on future authorizations and approvals. If we fail to maintain or obtain a necessary registration, license, approval or finding of suitability, we may be prohibited from selling our products or technologies for use in the jurisdiction, or we may be required to sell them through other licensed entities at a reduced profit. The continued growth of markets for our products and technologies is contingent upon regulatory approvals by various federal, state, local and foreign gaming authorities. We cannot predict which new jurisdictions or markets, if any, will accept and which authorities will approve the operation of our gaming products and technologies, the timing of any such approvals or the level of our penetration in any such markets. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Many of our contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe. Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Casinos and other gaming operators represent a significant portion of our customers. Therefore, factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, revenues may be reduced as our games may not perform well and may be taken off of the casino floor altogether. The level of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions; • levels of disposable income of casino patrons; • downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general, and table and slot games in particular; • the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; • the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; • local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; • increased transportation costs; • acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; • changes or proposed changes to tax laws; • increases in gaming taxes or fees; • legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; • the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; • the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and - 21 - Table of Contents • competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies. The gaming industry is sensitive to declines in the public acceptance of gaming. Public opinion can negatively affect the gaming industry and our future performance. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, this may affect our ability to do business in some markets, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes in existing gaming markets which may adversely affect our ability to continue to sell and lease our games in those jurisdictions, or through resulting reduced casino patronage. We cannot assure you that the level of support for legalized gaming or the public use of leisure money in gaming activities will not decline. Economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results. Since we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States, primarily Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, accounted for approximately 19.9% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2005. We expect the percentage of our international sales to increase in 2006. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls; • changes in regulatory requirements; • costs to comply with applicable laws; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • tariffs and other trade protection measures; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • changing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and • violations under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Holders of our common stock are subject to the requirements of the gaming laws of all jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Pursuant to applicable laws, gaming regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction in which we are subject to regulation may, in their discretion, require a holder of any of our securities to provide information, respond to questions, make filings, be investigated, licensed, qualified or found suitable to own our securities. Moreover, the holder of the securities making any such required application is generally required to pay all costs of the investigation, licensure, qualification or finding of suitability. If any holder of our securities fails to comply with the requirements of any gaming authority, we have the right, at our option, to require such holder to dispose of such holder’s securities within the period specified by the applicable gaming law or to redeem the - 22 - Table of Contents securities to the extent required to comply with the requirements of the applicable gaming law. Additionally, if a gaming authority determines that a holder is unsuitable to own our securities, such holder will have no further right to exercise any voting or other rights conferred by the securities, to receive any dividends, distributions or other economic benefit or payments with respect to the securities or to continue its ownership or economic interest in us. We can be sanctioned if we permit any of the foregoing to occur, which may include the loss of our licenses. We may not realize the benefits we expect from the acquisitions of VirtGame and EndX. The integration of VirtGame and EndX technology may be time consuming and expensive, and may disrupt our business. We will need to overcome significant challenges to realize any benefits or synergies from these transactions. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-transaction integration activities, including: • integrating the technologies of the companies; • entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • obtaining regulatory approval for the central server-based technology; • successfully completing the development of VirtGame and EndX technologies; • developing commercial products based on those technologies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • attracting additional customers for products based on VirtGame or EndX technologies; • implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, processes, procedures, policies and information systems; and • managing expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liability of VirtGame or EndX. The process of integrating operations and technology could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of VirtGame and EndX technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with these transactions. The inability to successfully integrate the technology and personnel of VirtGame and EndX, or any significant delay in achieving integration, including regulatory approval delays, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. Future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to seek to acquire businesses, services and technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with valuable customer contacts or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we complete, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be impaired. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies to our technology platforms and business processes; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for technologies and products of acquired companies; • potential loss of key employees; • if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which dilution could adversely affect the market price of our stock; - 23 - Table of Contents • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; and • potential write-offs of acquired assets. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. It is also possible that at some point in the future we may decide to enter new markets, thus subjecting ourselves to new risks associated with those markets. Our business will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our principal management, development and scientific personnel, and the ability to hire and retain key personnel, particularly in the technology area as we transition our business from manufacturing and distribution of slot machines and other hardware to game content and technology and continue to grow our existing businesses. We face intense competition for such personnel. The loss of services of any principal member of our management team, particularly Russel McMeekin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Michael A. Sicuro, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer, could adversely impact our operations and ability to raise additional capital. If our products or technologies contain defects, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations adversely affected. Some of our products and technologies are complex and may contain undetected defects. The occurrence of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and in turn termination of leases, licenses, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or technologies and loss of sales. As our business is subject to quarterly fluctuation, our operating results and stock price could be volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly revenue and net income may vary based on the timing of the opening of new gaming jurisdictions, the opening or closing of casinos or the expansion or contraction of existing casinos, gaming regulatory approval or denial of our products and corporate licenses, the introduction of new products or the seasonality of customer capital budgets, and our operating results have historically been lower in quarters with lower sales. In addition, historically, approximately up to 40% of our revenues have been based on cash-based licensing transactions, the majority of which are generated from intellectual property, content and technology licensing activities. Most of these non-recurring transactional revenues are from gaming supplier OEMs and service providers. Each such transaction is unique, depending on the nature, size, scope and breadth of the intellectual property, content, or technology that is being licensed and/or the rights the licensee or the buyer wishes to obtain. Also, these licensing transactions often take several months, and in some cases, several quarters, to negotiate and consummate. As a result, our quarterly revenues and net income may vary based on how and when we record these cash-based transactions, and our operating results and stock price could be volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis. We have substantial debt and debt service requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our business and the value of our common stock. On December 31, 2005, our total outstanding debt was approximately $45.0 million. We may incur additional debt in the future. Substantial debt may make it more difficult for us to operate and effectively compete in the gaming industry. The degree to which we and/or one or more of our subsidiaries are leveraged could have important adverse consequences on our value as follows: • it may be difficult for us to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness; • a significant portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to debt service and will not be available for other purposes that would otherwise be operationally value-enhancing uses of such funds; • our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, potential acquisition opportunities and other purposes may be limited; • we may be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures and may have reduced financial flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions in the gaming industry; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors and, as a result, more restricted in our ability to invest in our growth and expansion; • it may cause us to fail to comply with applicable debt covenants and could result in an event of default that could result in all of our indebtedness being immediately due and payable; and - 24 - Table of Contents • if new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security to holders of our Senior Secured Notes. The ability of our stockholders to participate in the distribution of our assets upon our liquidation or recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of our secured and unsecured creditors. Any foreclosure of our assets by such creditors will materially reduce the assets available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be forced to reduce or delay growth initiatives and capital expenditures, obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service requirements. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend upon our future performance and ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our current annual debt service requirements are approximately $5.3 million If our future cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments, we may be forced to reduce or delay activities and capital expenditures, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance our debt. In the event that we are unable to do so, we may be left without sufficient liquidity and we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements. In such a case, an event of default would occur under our indenture and could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. As a result, some or all of our lenders would be able to foreclose on our assets. Our lenders have imposed numerous debt covenants that include financial and operating restrictions that may adversely affect how we conduct our business and potentially reduce our revenues and affect the value of our common stock. We expect to continue to be subject to numerous covenants in our debt agreements that impose financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise, and may adversely affect the conduct and competitiveness of our current business, which could in turn reduce our revenues and thus affect the value of our common stock. Specifically, these covenants may place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur more debt; • pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions; • make acquisitions or investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with others; • dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; • create liens on our assets; and • extend credit. The terms of our indebtedness require that we meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Our ability to meet these ratios and tests and to comply with other provisions governing our indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness, including without limitation, our senior secured notes. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, our revenues and thus our common stock value. Additionally, the covenants governing our indebtedness restrict the operations of our subsidiaries, including, in some cases, limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, and these limitations could impair our ability to meet such financial ratios and tests. Lastly, we are required by our senior secured notes to offer to repurchase or make certain payments on our debt at times when we may lack the financial resources to do so, such as upon a change of control. These expenditures may materially and adversely affect our - 25 - Table of Contents liquidity and our ability to maintain or grow our business as payments to satisfy the debt will be diverted away from any investment in the growth of our business, thus potentially affecting the value of our common stock. We have been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Commencing on November 28, 2005, four similar purported class action complaints were filed against us and two of our officers in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, alleging that during a “class period” beginning in early 2005 and ending on October 19, 2005, we misled investors concerning the prospective application of SFAS 153 to our financial statements for the third quarter of 2005. The actions seek unspecified money damages under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. However, no assurances can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to, among other things, make significant payments to resolve these claims, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if not covered by our insurance. Further, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, the litigation itself may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Securities The share price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. These factors include: • periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or of our competitors; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • quarterly fluctuations in non-recurring revenues from cash-based licensing transactions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results difficult. These factors include: • changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for the products we sell; • quarterly fluctuations in non-recurring revenues from cash-based licensing transactions; • general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and • the actions of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced declines in the trading price of their shares due to events of this nature have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, thus harming our business. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales by existing stockholders of large numbers of shares of our - 26 - Table of Contents common stock or the perception that such sales may occur. Such sales of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. Of the approximately 34.4 million shares that are outstanding as of December 31, 2005, approximately 33.6 million shares generally are freely tradable in the public market. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding options to purchase 2,825,102 of our shares and we may grant options to purchase up to an additional 831,013 shares under our stock option plans. Shares purchased on exercise of those options would be freely tradable in the public market, except for any that might be acquired by our officers or directors. If a recent action of an employee of one of our underwriters is held to be “gun jumping” in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 or to constitute a prospectus that does not meet the requirements of the Securities Act, we could be required to repurchase the securities sold in our recent common stock offering. Prior to the effectiveness of the registration statement relating to our recent common stock offering, in a televised interview, an analyst with one of our underwriters, among other things recommended the Company as an investment choice. In addition, for a limited time, the underwriter posted a clip of the interview on its website. These actions were taken without our authorization or prior knowledge. However, these actions could be held by a court to be a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, in which case purchasers in our recent common stock offering may have the right, for a period of one year following the date of the violation, to obtain recovery of the consideration paid in connection with their purchase or, if they have already sold the shares, to sue us for damages resulting from the purchase. Although we would contest vigorously any claim that a violation of the Securities Act occurred, we cannot assure you that such a claim will not be made. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. As a result, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, since we currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expansion and growth of our business, including acquisitions. Moreover, the covenants governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to pay and declare dividends without the consent of the applicable lender. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our stockholder rights plan and Nevada law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and therefore could affect the price investors may be willing to pay for our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Under these provisions, we could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt or third-party acquisition that certain of our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests, including a takeover attempt that may result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from increasing substantially in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts and also may prevent changes in our management. Because these anti-takeover provisions may result in our being perceived as a potentially more difficult takeover target, this may affect the price investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. - 27 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 