Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K, other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in any other discussions of the Company’s business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect the business, financial condition, and/or operating results of the Company. The success of the business depends on the Company’s ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to originate and define fashion product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. The retail business fluctuates according to consumer preferences, dictated in part by fashion and season. Decisions with respect to product designs are generally made well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. To the extent the Company fails to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to consumer preferences, sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with national department stores as well as regional department store chains. The Company also competes with other specialty retailers and catalog companies. The Company is faced with a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • developing high quality merchandise in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; • appropriately managing inventory levels; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; • effectively marketing the Company’s products to consumers; and • pricing the Company’s merchandise appropriately. Increased competition could cause the Company’s sales and margins to be reduced and adversely affect results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to successfully reposition J. Jill’s operations. The Company acquired J. Jill in May 2006. The Company’s ability to continue to grow and sustain long-term profitability may depend upon effectively integrating and growing the J. Jill business. The realization of any revenue growth, cost savings or synergies related to J. Jill will depend largely upon the Company’s ability to: • Implement key design changes to the J. Jill brand merchandise that will lead to increased sales; • Appropriately price the J. Jill brand merchandise; • Open J. Jill brand stores in locations where operations will be profitable; • Successfully integrate back office functions, including operational, financial, and management systems and controls in a timely manner; and • Execute strategies for the J. Jill brand without adversely impacting the existing Talbots brand. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully execute any of the actions above or that the Company’s strategies for the J. Jill brand will achieve the results necessary to generate profits. If the Company fails to integrate the J. Jill operations or cannot successfully execute its growth strategy, the Company’s results will be adversely impacted. The Company cannot assure the successful implementation of its growth strategy. The Company’s continued growth depends on its ability to open and operate stores successfully and to manage the Company’s planned expansion. During 2007, the Company plans to open approximately 40 Talbots brand stores and 30 J. Jill brand stores, which is fewer stores on an annual basis than its historic trends. The Company’s planned expansion is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the level of sales volume and profitability at existing store locations, the availability of sufficient capital resources to effect expansion plans, the continuing availability of desirable locations, the ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for prospective new and expanded locations, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, and integrating new stores into its existing operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its planned expansion or that such expansion will be profitable or that the Company will be able to manage its growth effectively. The Company incurred substantial debt to finance the J. Jill acquisition. In February 2006, the Company entered into a $400.0 million Bridge Loan Agreement in connection with its planned acquisition of J. Jill. In July 2006, the Bridge Loan was converted into a Term Loan (the “Acquisition Debt”) to be repaid in equal quarterly installments over a five-year period. Additionally, since the acquisition, borrowings under the Company’s short-term facilities have been higher than it has historically experienced in order to meet current cash needs. The Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations and to reduce its total debt depends on the Company’s future operating performance. The Company’s business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations. If the Company is unable to service its debt and fund its business, the Company may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, or seek additional financing or equity capital. There can be no assurance that the Company’s cash requirements will be met by existing available borrowing facilities. Additionally, the Company’s outstanding debt accrues interest at variable rates; therefore interest payment obligations on this indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. Restrictions in the Company’s Acquisition Loan Agreement may limit its activities. The Company’s Acquisition Loan Agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit it, including restrictions on the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness, • make investments, 13 Table of Contents • create liens, • sell assets, • enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and • consolidate, or merge. The Company is also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of its Acquisition Loan Agreement. The Company’s ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on its future performance. The Company’s failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under its Acquisition Loan Agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require the Company to repay that debt before its scheduled due date. If an event of default occurs, the Company may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under its indebtedness. The Company cannot assure a successful search for Mr. Zetcher’s successor as Chief Executive Officer. On February 12, 2007, Arnold B. Zetcher announced his plan to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the end of fiscal 2007, and the Company has announced that a search committee has been established and is functioning in its search for Mr. Zetcher’s successor. Mr. Zetcher has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Company for nearly 20 years. There can be no assurance that a successor will be found in an appropriate time period. The Company experiences fluctuations in comparable store sales results. Comparable stores are those that were open for at least one full fiscal year. When a new Talbots Petites store, Talbots Woman store, or Talbots Accessories & Shoes store is opened adjacent to or in close proximity to an existing comparable Misses store, such Misses store is excluded from the computation of comparable store sales for a period of 13 months so that the performance of the full Misses assortment may be properly compared. The Company’s comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, and are expected to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales results, including changes in fashion trends, timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, timing of catalog mailings, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales are not an indicator of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s comparable store sales will not decrease in the future. The Company’s comparable store sales performance is likely to have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company experiences fluctuations in operating results. The Company’s annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Among the factors that may cause the Company’s operating results to fluctuate are customers’ response to merchandise offerings, the timing of the rollout of new stores, seasonal variations in sales, the timing and size of catalog mailings, the costs of producing and mailing catalogs, the timing of merchandise receipts, the level of merchandise returns, changes in merchandise mix and presentation, the Company’s cost of merchandise, unanticipated operating costs, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. As a result of these factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. If the Company fails to maintain the value of its brands, sales are likely to decline. The Company’s success depends on the value of the Talbots and J. Jill brands. The Talbots brand name and “classic” niche is integral to the success of the brand’s business. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning the Talbots brand will depend largely on the success of the Company’s marketing and merchandising efforts and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. The Talbots brand could be adversely affected if the Company fails to achieve these objectives or if the Company’s public image is tarnished by negative publicity. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s success depends upon its ability to effectively define, evolve and promote the J. Jill brand. With the implementation of new merchandising leadership, the Company has begun to implement initiatives to improve the brand’s merchandise. In addition, the Company is taking steps designed to further develop the brand through client research, in-store and direct marketing. While the Company believes that the changes will help to build brand awareness and attract new customers, the Company cannot provide assurance that they will result in increased sales or profitability in the future. The Company cannot assure that it will be successful in introducing new business concepts that will result in increased profitability for the Company. The Company has introduced new business concepts within the Talbots brand, including Talbots Petites, Talbots Kids, Talbots Accessories & Shoes, Talbots Woman, Talbots Woman Petites, Talbots Collection, and Talbots Mens. The Company may introduce new business concepts in the future, either under the Talbots or J. Jill brand. There can be no assurance that these new concepts will be successful or that the Company’s overall profitability will increase as a result of introducing these concepts. The Company cannot assure that Internet sales will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth. The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites, www.talbots.com and www.jjill.com. The Company’s Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures, and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The Internet operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations, including potential electronic break-ins or other security breaches, hiring, retention and training of personnel to conduct the Company’s Internet operations, diversion of sales from the Company’s stores, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, violations of state or federal privacy laws, and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and similar disruptions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s Internet operations will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. The Company could be adversely affected if any of its distribution centers are shut down. The Company operates store distribution and catalog fulfillment facilities in Lakeville, Massachusetts, and Tilton, New Hampshire for all of its U.S. stores and worldwide catalog operations. If one center were to be shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other center may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution and fulfillment demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each center services a particular brand. As a result, the Company could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing merchandise to its stores and/or fulfill catalog and Internet orders, which could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. Talented personnel are critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent on both the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified and talented management personnel in the future. The Company’s inability to recruit and retain such personnel, or the loss of services of any of its current key employees, could adversely impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes it vulnerable to a number of risks. The Company purchases a significant portion of its merchandise directly from foreign sources. Approximately 78% of the Talbots brand merchandise and 88% of the J. Jill brand merchandise purchased in 2006 was purchased directly from foreign sources. In addition, goods purchased from domestic vendors may be sourced abroad by such 15 Table of Contents vendors. As a result, the Company’s business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • political instability; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where the Company does business; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruption in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. The Company cannot predict whether the foreign countries in which the Company’s apparel and accessories are currently manufactured or any of the foreign countries in which the Company’s apparel and accessories may be manufactured in the future will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel and, in that event, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s operations. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items which could adversely affect the Company’s sales. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industry, including: • general business conditions; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • taxation; • employment levels; • political conditions such as war, terrorism and political unrest; and • consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items may decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which the Company sells its products, whether in the U.S. or abroad, may adversely affect the Company’s operations. A major failure of the Company’s information systems could harm the business. The Company depends on information systems to manage its operations. The Company’s information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial, and merchandising systems, including credit, inventory distribution and control, sales reporting, accounts payable, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise reporting, and distribution. The Company regularly makes investments to upgrade, enhance, or replace such systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these new systems, or in integrating these systems with the Company’s current systems, or any other disruptions affecting the Company’s information systems, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. 16 Table of Contents The market price of the Company’s common stock is volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or disclosures concerning the Company or its competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates by the Company or by analysts, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 