Item 1A. Risk Factors Careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, in evaluating the Company and our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only risks facing the Company. New risk factors can emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact that any factor or combination of factors may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may not achieve the improvements we expect in our operating results, working capital and cash flows. Our operating plan anticipates significant improvements in our operating results and cash flows in fiscal 2012. However, we are in a transition period; our strategic initiatives, designed to improve our sales and operating results, are expected to take time to gain traction, and our results have fluctuated significantly from and have been significantly below our expectations during this transition period. Our negative past sales trends and operating results may take longer to recover than we expect or have planned, and actual results may differ materially and be materially less than planned. As a result, our future operating results and cash flows may not at all times be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, required payments on our indebtedness and all of the other cash requirements of our business. Our ability to improve our operating results, working capital, cash flows and liquidity in fiscal 2012 and beyond depends upon a significant number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • customer acceptance of our merchandise; • our ability to respond to any increased competitive pressures in our industry; • our ability to achieve our sales and gross profit margin plans for fiscal 2012; • our ability to achieve our cash flow plan for fiscal 2012, particularly during our peak inventory build-ups in advance of principal selling seasons; • the success of our strategic initiatives and cost reduction initiative; • our ability to reduce our costs and cash spending in amounts and at the times needed; • our ability to effectively manage inventory; • our ability to obtain any additional financing or other liquidity enhancing transactions, if and when needed; • the continuation of our trade payables arrangement and letter of credit arrangement with our exclusive sourcing agent; • our ability to respond to any unanticipated changes in expected cash flows, liquidity, cash needs and cash expenditures; • our ability to access adequate and uninterrupted supply of merchandise from suppliers on open account purchase terms at expected levels and acceptable payment terms; • general economic conditions; and • our ability to adjust our operating plans in response to changing conditions. Our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities and improve gross profit margins has also been negatively impacted by the highly promotional conditions in our industry, which we expect may continue for at least the foreseeable future. We cannot assure that any or all of the above or other factors, plans and initiatives will be in our favor or generate the outcomes that we expect. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will achieve our operating plan or improvements in our operating results, working capital and cash flows, which could materially impact our financial results, liquidity and financial position. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop merchandise offerings that resonate with our existing customers and help to attract new customers. Our future success depends on our ability to consistently anticipate, gauge and respond to our customers’ demands and tastes in the design, pricing, style and production of our merchandise. Our merchandise offerings 11 Table of Contents require long lead times, making it difficult to respond quickly to changes in customer preferences. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in customer preferences and economic conditions could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excessive inventories and more frequent markdowns, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our sales levels. At the same time, as part of our “tradition transformed” brand vision, we are striving to have our product offerings, brand image and marketing approach increase and expand our customer base while continuing to appeal to our traditional core customer. There is no assurance that we will be successful in increasing our number of customers and customer base or that our product offerings will resonate with our traditional core and expanded customer base. We have faced challenges in seeking to evolve our merchandise assortments. Merchandise misjudgments negatively impact our gross profit margins, markdown exposure and operating profitability and could negatively impact our image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. We face substantial competitive pressures from other retailers and operate in a highly promotional environment. The specialty apparel retail industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with many other specialty retailers, department stores and catalog and Internet businesses. The competition among apparel retailers for the reduced discretionary consumer spending we have seen over the past few years has been intense. Many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience for at least the foreseeable future, significant pricing pressure and significantly increased promotional activity from our competitors; and we may face challenges in seeking to provide merchandise at competitive prices that allow us to be profitable. If we are unable to successfully compete in this promotional environment, we could experience reductions in our sales and excessive build-up of merchandise inventories resulting in increased markdowns and reductions in our gross profit margins, adversely impacting our profitability and cash flows from operating activities. We cannot assure that our internal and external sources of liquidity will at all times be sufficient for our cash requirements. Our operating losses in fiscal 2011 have challenged our capital resources, with net cash used in operating activities increasing $119.4 million over the prior year. Fiscal 2012 will continue a transition period for the Company. Our operating plan for fiscal 2012 anticipates improvements in our cash flows from operating activities, when compared to our results for fiscal 2011, as we progress with the implementation of our strategic initiatives and cost reduction initiative, although our ability to achieve these improvements is dependent upon a significant number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. We also recently entered into a new $75.0 million secured term loan facility and extended our revolving credit facility. Our operating plan for fiscal 2012 also assumes that our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility, as amended, and credit availability and credit support from our exclusive sourcing agent and vendors will continue at least at existing levels, which we cannot assure. Our ability to achieve our operating and cash flow plans is therefore based on a number of assumptions which involve significant judgment and estimates of future performance, borrowing capacity and credit availability, which cannot at all times be assured. Accordingly, we cannot assure that cash flows and other internal and external sources of liquidity will at all times be sufficient for our cash requirements. We will continue to monitor our performance and liquidity and, if needed or advisable, may need to consider actions and steps to continue to improve our cash position and mitigate any potential liquidity shortfall, such as by modifying our operating plan, pursuing additional financing to the extent available, seeking additional credit availability or support from our exclusive sourcing agent or vendors, further reducing capital expenditures, pursuing and evaluating other alternatives and opportunities to obtain additional sources of liquidity and other potential actions seeking to reduce costs, adjust cash spend and improve our cash position and liquidity, which we cannot assure would be successful. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain any additional financing or any refinancing of our debt, if needed at any time, depends upon many factors, including our existing level of indebtedness and restrictions in our debt facilities, historical business performance, financial projections, prospects and creditworthiness and external economic conditions and general liquidity in the credit and capital markets. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under our existing debt facilities. Any additional debt or equity financing would likely also require modification of our existing secured debt agreements, which we cannot assure would be obtainable. Any additional financing or refinancing could also be at higher costs and require us to satisfy more restrictive covenants, which could further limit or restrict our operations, cash flows and earnings. We cannot assure that any of these actions would be sufficient or available in the amounts or at the time or times needed, or, if available, available on favorable terms. Any inability to generate or obtain sufficient levels of liquidity to meet our cash requirements at the level and times needed would have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity and financial position. Increased store productivity will be largely dependent upon our success in continuing to rationalize our existing store portfolio. In March 2011, we announced the acceleration of our store rationalization plan, a program designed to increase the productivity of our store square footage by evaluating our store portfolio on a market-by-market basis and closing, consolidating or downsizing certain selected locations. In connection with this store rationalization plan, we closed 82 locations, including 69 full stores, during fiscal 2011 and expect to close approximately 30 locations through fiscal 2012 and into early fiscal 2013. The scope and timing of closures, consolidations and downsizings under this plan remain dynamic as we continue to perform ongoing evaluations of our portfolio and continue the process of negotiating acceptable termination arrangements with associated third parties. While we have made certain assumptions concerning expected productivity improvements from this plan, including the migration of certain sales from closing store locations to neighboring store locations and to our direct marketing channels and better inventory, capital expenditure and other resource allocation over a more refined store base, we cannot assure that the expected improvements will be realized or will improve our store productivity in the amounts or in the time expected. If we are unable to successfully execute on this program to the extent or within the time that we expect or if the improvements in productivity are not at the level that we expect, our sales, gross profit margins, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales and store productivity is largely dependent upon our ability to increase customer traffic. Customer traffic depends upon our ability to successfully promote our brand with our existing customers and potential new customers by engaging our customer through certain of our strategic initiatives, providing merchandise that satisfies customer demand in terms of price, quality, fit and availability, predicting fashion trends for our customers and providing an appealing shopping environment and experience. Our comparable store customer traffic was flat in fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year. There can be no assurance that our efforts to increase customer traffic in our stores or to migrate customers from closing store locations to neighboring store locations or to our direct marketing channels will be successful or at the levels we expect, which could negatively impact our sales and store productivity and may leave us with excess inventory. We may need to respond to any declines in customer traffic by increasing markdowns or initiating or continuing additional promotions to attract customers to our stores, which would adversely impact our gross profit margins, operating results and cash flows from operating activities. 13 Table of Contents Our secured debt facilities contain provisions which restrict our operations, our ability to obtain any additional financing or other liquidity enhancing transactions and our ability to execute certain strategic transactions. Our revolving credit facility, as amended, and new secured term loan facility (collectively, our “debt facilities”) include covenants and other obligations that impose significant operating and financial limitations and restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to enter into particular transactions and to engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business. Without the consent of our lenders, our debt facilities limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or assume additional indebtedness, contingent obligations or guarantee indebtedness; • sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • create or incur liens or enter into negative pledge clauses; • enter into collateralization or securitization transactions; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • enter into or engage in transactions with affiliates; • merge, consolidate or sell certain significant assets; • change our capital structure and issue any capital stock (other than common stock) in any material respect adverse to the lenders; • use net proceeds from asset dispositions or securities sales in excess of certain defined levels other than for prepayments of our secured debt; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock except for those issued in the form of stock or stock equivalents, repurchase our outstanding common stock except in limited circumstances as defined in the agreements or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • prepay other indebtedness prior to its scheduled maturity; • make loans or investments and acquire certain assets or securities; • make intercompany loans and capital contributions; • amend, modify or waive any rights under or terminate agreements governing our proprietary credit card; • amend either debt facility without the consent of the lenders under the other debt facility; • make changes to other indebtedness arrangements; and • maintain cash reserves in excess of established amounts. These restrictions significantly impact our future alternatives by limiting, without lender consent, our ability to borrow additional funds, execute certain equity financings or enter into dispositions or collateralizations or securitizations of our assets or other liquidity enhancing or strategic transactions. Our ability to obtain additional or other financing or to dispose of certain assets could also be negatively impacted because most of our assets have been pledged as collateral for repayment of our indebtedness under our debt facilities. In addition, the net proceeds of any debt or equity financing, asset disposition or other external liquidity generating transaction would generally need to be first applied to our existing indebtedness, which, while reducing our level of indebtedness, cannot be assured to be sufficient for our continuing cash requirements and cash needs. In addition, a change in control, as defined in the debt facilities, as well as certain other strategic transactions would constitute an event of default under our debt facilities. For example, the lenders could declare a default and require prepayment of all of our secured debt if, without the consent of our lenders, we were to merge or 14 Table of Contents consolidate with or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to another entity or upon the occurrence of certain other change in control events (defined in our debt facilities to include, among other things, any person or group acquiring 50.0% or more of the total voting power of our securities, the replacement of a majority of our Board of Directors under certain circumstances and certain mergers or other extraordinary transactions). The debt facilities also contain extensive representations and warranties which cover many events and actions relating to the Company and our operations and assets, many of which are outside of our control. We must continue to ensure our compliance with and the accuracy of these representations and warranties to avoid an event of default under the debt facilities. Unexpected events or events outside of our direct control could violate such provisions. In the event of a default, unless we are able to secure waivers or amendments, lenders’ commitments to extend further credit could be terminated; our outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable; and, if outstanding indebtedness is not immediately satisfied from cash resources, our lenders could realize on all collateral pledged to secure such indebtedness. Should we be unable to borrow under these facilities, we may not have the necessary cash resources for our operations and, if outstanding amounts were to become immediately due and payable, we may not have the cash resources available to repay such accelerated obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, as amended, is subject to the value of certain of our assets and is subject to certain limitations and reserves. Our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, as amended, (the “Amended Credit Facility”), pursuant to both the terms of the Amended Credit Facility and the terms of our new secured term loan (the “Term Loan”), is based in large part on the values of certain of our assets at any point in time. In the event of any material decrease in the amount of or appraised value of these assets, our borrowing capacity would similarly decrease, which could adversely impact our business and liquidity. In addition, the borrowing base calculation under our Amended Credit Facility is subject to various reserves applicable to determining borrowing availability. The lenders under each of the Amended Credit Facility and Term Loan also have the right to establish certain additional reserves against borrowing availability if the lenders determine, in good faith and in the exercise of reasonable business judgment, that additional reserves are necessary. Our Term Loan contains a number of separate additional reserves and limitations which directly impact and reduce the aggregate amount that may be borrowed under the Amended Credit Facility. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding these debt facilities. Any material reduction in our borrowing availability under the Amended Credit Facility could materially impact our business and liquidity. There are significant risks associated with our strategic initiatives. We are still executing a number of major strategic initiatives as part of our transformation strategy which are designed to drive long-term shareholder value and improve our store productivity, sales and results of operations. These strategic initiatives include: • a plan to rationalize and reduce our store real estate portfolio and square footage; • a store re-image initiative, a program which is designed to translate our updated brand image into a renovated storefront and store lay-out; • information technology enhancements and upgrades; and • a segmentation strategy, a system whereby we sort our stores based on customer lifestyle, behavior and climate which seeks to improve store productivity by tailoring our merchandise assortment and store experience to specific segments. 15 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement each of these strategic initiatives or that our transformation strategy will result in improved store productivity, sales or results of operations or long-term shareholder value. In addition, depending upon our customers’ reaction and acceptance of these initiatives and, as we obtain more information, we may also need to continue to adjust any one or more of these initiatives. These changes could be substantial and, if implemented, could result in significant costs. If we do not successfully execute on these strategic initiatives or if our transformation strategy does not achieve its intended results, we may experience a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain key executives, including successors to key senior management roles, such as our Chief Executive Officer, is critical to our success. Our ability to continue to execute our transformation strategy and generate long-term sustainable growth and profitability depends, to a significant extent, on the performance of our senior management and our ability to attract, recruit, motivate and retain key members of our executive senior management team, including successors to these key roles. The loss of one or more of our key personnel and any inability to effectively implement a suitable successor to a key role in our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In December 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had begun the process of identifying a successor for our Chief Executive Officer who will retire once a successor has been identified or, under the terms of her agreement, no later than June 30, 2012 or any earlier time as our Board of Directors may determine. It cannot be assured that a qualified successor will be retained at the time needed. In addition, in September 2011, the Company’s Chief Creative Officer separated from employment with the Company. There can be no assurance that our design function and merchandise offerings may not be negatively impacted by this change. Further, in December 2011, the Company received an unsolicited proposal to acquire all of the Company’s outstanding common stock, and subsequently, our Board of Directors announced that it had resolved to evaluate a full range of strategic alternatives for the Company. This strategic review process creates uncertainty which may impact our ability to recruit and retain executive talent, including a new Chief Executive Officer. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross profit margins could be affected, and we may incur losses. Our success depends upon our ability to manage appropriate inventory levels and respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand patterns. If we overestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we will likely need to record inventory markdowns and move the excess inventory to our surplus outlets to be sold at discount or closeout prices which would negatively impact operating results and could negatively impact our brand image. If we underestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages which may result in missed sales opportunities and have a negative impact on customer loyalty. We plan to reduce certain of our inventory commitments in fiscal 2012 related to our cost reduction initiative, which may impact our sales and merchandise availability. The inability to fill customer orders efficiently could lower customer satisfaction and could cause customers to go to an alternate source for the desired products, which would adversely affect our business. There are risks associated with our reliance on an exclusive global apparel sourcing agent. In August 2009, we reorganized our global sourcing activities and entered into a long-term buying agency agreement with an affiliate of Li & Fung Limited (“Li & Fung”) pursuant to which Li & Fung was appointed as exclusive global apparel sourcing agent for substantially all of our apparel effective September 2009. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from this arrangement will be realized or realized within the time periods expected. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that upon the cessation of this relationship, for any reason, we would be able to successfully transition to an internal or other external sourcing function. 16 Table of Contents Our trade payables arrangement is subject to suspension or early termination at the discretion of our exclusive sourcing agent. On September 1, 2011, we entered into an arrangement with our exclusive global apparel sourcing agent, whereby we are able to extend payment terms for merchandise purchases sourced by our exclusive agent. On February 29, 2012, this arrangement was extended until August 31, 2012, with an option to renew for an additional six month period upon the mutual agreement of the Company and our sourcing agent. This arrangement is subject to suspension or earlier termination as provided in the arrangement, including any termination by our sourcing agent, in its discretion, upon twenty-eight days notice at any time, at which point amounts outstanding would become due. In addition, our sourcing agent has agreed to extend letters of credit, on our behalf and at our request, to vendors organized under our buying agency agreement for certain merchandise purchases, which may be suspended at the discretion of our sourcing agent. Any suspension or early termination of the trade payables arrangement or our sourcing agent’s letter of credit extension could significantly impact our working capital needs and liquidity. Further, there can be no assurance that the trade payables arrangement or our sourcing agent’s letter of credit extension will continue. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our business and results of operations and may require the use of our available cash resources to meet interest and principal repayment obligations, which could impact our ability to reinvest in other areas of our business. As of January 28, 2012, we had $116.5 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Additionally, on February 16, 2012, we entered into a new $75.0 million secured term loan facility. Our future payment obligations on these facilities may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows while this indebtedness is outstanding. Our indebtedness could also have a material impact on our business. For example, it could: • limit our ability to reinvest in our business and invest in strategic initiatives; • require a significant portion of our cash flows from operating activities to be used for interest and principal repayments, reducing working capital and general liquidity; • make us more vulnerable to negative changes in economic conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes or refinancing of our debt; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other retailers who may have proportionately less debt. Any additional indebtedness which we may incur in the future would likely increase our risks from outstanding indebtedness including those referenced above. Our ability to satisfy our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. A decrease in cash flows from operating activities could make it more difficult to service our indebtedness and other obligations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our debt obligations at any time, and we are unable to obtain waivers or amendments from the lenders or to refinance our indebtedness, we would be in default under these debt facilities. Due to cross-default and certain other provisions in our debt facilities, a default under one of our debt facilities would be a default under our other debt facility. If we default under our debt facilities, amounts outstanding could become immediately due and payable, and the lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit; in which case, absent additional financing or refinancing, we may not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy such debt and our lenders could realize on all collateral pledged to secure such indebtedness or seek other remedies, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents Unfavorable economic conditions or the slowing, stalling or reversal of an economic recovery could materially and adversely impact our financial conditions and results of operations. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. Over the past several years, the U.S. economy weakened significantly as a result of the global economic crisis and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Continued weak or uncertain economic conditions may materially and adversely impact consumer confidence and consumer spending and, as a result, our ability to forecast our continuing operations and to achieve our expected operating results would be adversely affected. Our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors may be impacted by our financial results or financial position. Substantially all of our merchandise suppliers and vendors sell to us on open account purchase terms. There is a risk that our suppliers and vendors could respond to any actual or apparent decrease in or any concern with our financial results or liquidity by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on more stringent payment terms, such as by requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices, payment upon delivery or other assurances or credit support. There can be no assurance that one or more of our suppliers may not slow or cease merchandise shipments or require or condition their sale or shipment of merchandise on more stringent payment terms. If any of the above circumstances were to occur, our need for additional liquidity in the near term could significantly increase. Such circumstances, if they were to occur, could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise which would have a material adverse effect on our sales, customer satisfaction, cash flows, liquidity and financial position. Actions taken under our cost reduction initiative may not produce the savings expected and may negatively impact our other initiatives and efforts to grow our business. In the second half of fiscal 2011, we began implementing certain measures aimed at improving our profitability and maintaining flexibility in our capital resources, including the introduction of a cost reduction initiative. This cost reduction initiative includes significant workforce reductions, significant reductions in projected marketing spend and other cost and spend reductions, including year-over-year reductions in planned capital expenditures and inventory commitments. We have forecasted substantial cost savings from these initiatives based on a number of assumptions and expectations which, if achieved, would improve our profitability and cash flows from operating activities. There can be no assurance that actual results achieved may not vary materially from what we have assumed and forecasted which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. If we are successful in executing this cost reduction initiative, there can be no assurance that the cost savings achieved will be sufficient to offset any inability to meet our operating plan for sales and gross profit margins. Further, certain spend reductions may negatively impact our other initiatives or our efforts to grow our business. For example, our planned reductions in marketing spend for fiscal 2012 may negatively impact our brand awareness, customer acquisitions, customer retention and sales. Our other cost reduction actions may also impact or delay certain of our operating and productivity initiatives which may negatively impact our future results of operations, delay our brand and business transformation and increase the burden on existing management, systems and resources. We may continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results and significant variability between financial expectations and actual results. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results may not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. There can be no assurance that our current or future internal expectations and outlook for sales, comparable sales, gross profit margins and profitability will prove to be accurate. Failure to meet internal or market financial expectations going forward, particularly with respect to sales, gross profit margins and earnings, would likely result in a decline in and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. 18 Table of Contents Our noncontributory defined benefit pension plan is underfunded, and our pension funding obligations and other postretirement benefit obligations are significant and may require significant future cash contributions. We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”), two unfunded non-qualified supplemental executive retirement plans (collectively, the “SERP”) for certain Talbots current and former key executives impacted by Internal Revenue Code limits and medical benefits for certain executives under our executive postretirement medical plan. Although we froze these plans as to future benefits and new participants in 2009, our future obligations related to these plans are significant. Our future funding obligations and expense levels with respect to these plans will be materially impacted by projected and actual market interest rate levels, which determine our discount rates; projected and actual market performance of Pension Plan assets; changes in actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. The remeasurement of our Pension Plan and SERP at the end of fiscal 2011 reflects a significant decrease in our applied discount rates which has significantly increased our projected benefit obligations. There can be no assurance that future market interest rates or asset returns will improve or achieve the levels which we have projected in our calculation of our obligations for funding and expense purposes. Any adverse change in the variables which impact our obligations under these plans could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “PPA”) generally establishes a funding target of 100.0% of the present value of accrued benefits of covered defined benefit pension plans. Furthermore, any plan with a funding ratio of less than 80.0% will be deemed “at risk” and will be subject to potentially higher funding requirements under the PPA. Our Pension Plan has been deemed to be “at risk” for the 2011 and 2012 plan years because the Pension Plan’s funding target for each prior plan year was less than 80.0% and when measured using “at risk” assumptions was less than 70.0%. Sponsors of plans that have “at risk” status are required to use certain specified assumptions, the net effect of which may be to significantly increase required minimum contribution requirements and PBGC variable premiums. Further under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) has the authority to terminate an underfunded qualified pension plan in certain circumstances. In the event that our Pension Plan is ever terminated for any reason while underfunded, we would incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the Pension Plan’s underfunding. In connection with the sale of the J. Jill business in 2009 we remain contingently responsible for certain material risks and obligations. In July 2009, we completed the sale of the J. Jill business. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from the sale of the J. Jill business will be realized. There also can be no assurance that the estimated or anticipated costs, charges and liabilities to settle and complete the transition and exit from the J. Jill business, including both retained obligations and contingent risk for assigned obligations, will not materially differ from or be materially greater than anticipated. In connection with the sale of the J. Jill business to J. Jill Acquisition LLC (the “Purchaser”), the Purchaser agreed to acquire and assume from us certain assets and liabilities relating to the J. Jill business. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the Purchaser is obligated for liabilities that arise after the closing under assumed contracts, which included leases for 205 J. Jill stores assigned to the Purchaser, of which 197 assigned leases remained outstanding at January 28, 2012, and a sublease through December 2014 of approximately 65,749 square feet of space at the Company’s leased office facility in Quincy, Massachusetts. Certain of our subsidiaries remain contingently liable for obligations and liabilities transferred to the Purchaser, including those related to leases and other obligations transferred to and assumed by the Purchaser, as to which obligations and liabilities we now rely on the Purchaser’s creditworthiness as counterparty. If any material defaults were to occur which the Purchaser does not satisfy or fully indemnify us against and we were required to respond, it may have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While we have accrued a liability for the estimated exposure related to these guarantees, which is subject to future adjustment, any actual exposure could vary materially from estimated amounts. 19 Table of Contents Our overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes us vulnerable to certain risks. All of our merchandise is manufactured to our specifications by third party suppliers and intermediary vendors, most of which are located outside of the United States. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our exclusive sourcing agent are subject, generally, to the risks of doing business abroad, including: • political, social and economic instability in any of the countries related to our sourcing activities; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where we do business; • imposition of duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruptions in international shipping and related pricing impacts; • the receipt of any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; and • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and rely solely on third party manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. A manufacturer’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required product safety and quality standards could cause supply shortages, failure to meet customer expectations and damage to our brand, which could adversely impact our sales and operating results. Further, any significant negative impacts to our suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our third party manufacturers may fail to comply with our social compliance program requirements. We require our third party manufacturers to comply with our social compliance program standards that cover many areas including child labor, excessive working hours, freedom of association and safe working conditions. We monitor their compliance with these standards through our third party exclusive global apparel sourcing agent in conjunction with other third party monitoring firms. Although we have an active program to provide training for our independent manufacturers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. Any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our standards or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise or damage our reputation. The loss of or infringement upon our trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our “Talbots” trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. Even though we register and take the necessary steps to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration of others or prevent others from infringing on our trademarks and proprietary rights or from seeking to block sales of our merchandise as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Any litigation regarding our trademarks and other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. Further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Because we have not registered our trademarks in all foreign countries in which we currently manufacture merchandise or may manufacture merchandise in the future, our sourcing of merchandise could be limited. 20 Table of Contents If our intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. We test our goodwill and trademarks for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may not be recoverable. Significant declines in our performance, for any reason, could impact the fair value of our goodwill and trademarks and could result in material future impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, we monitor the performance and productivity of our store portfolio and close stores when appropriate. When we determine that a store is underperforming or is likely to be closed, we reassess the recoverability of the store’s long-lived assets, which in some cases can result in an impairment charge. Any potential or actual future store closings, consolidations or downsizings or any negative trends in store performance may result in additional future impairments of store assets. We may not be able to successfully execute or manage our plan to grow our upscale outlet portfolio. Our plan for our store portfolio includes opening additional upscale outlets, a store concept we introduced in 2009. Our ability to successfully expand our upscale outlet concept depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to identify suitable store locations and to negotiate acceptable lease terms. We face substantial competition from other retailers for such sites. In fiscal 2012, we expect to open approximately 20 new upscale outlets. There can be no assurance that our upscale outlets will open timely, operate successfully or result in greater profitability for the Company. We are subject to credit risk and to potential increased defaults and delinquencies on our customer credit card account portfolio. We extend credit to our customers for merchandise purchases through our proprietary credit card. While we monitor our credit card account portfolio and we believe that our credit card account portfolio continues to be sound, the deteriorated economic environment and current high levels of unemployment may lead to higher customer delinquencies and defaults. There can be no assurance that our credit risk monitoring or our monitoring of our credit card account portfolio will guard against or enable us to adequately and timely respond to any increased risk of or actual increased customer delinquencies or defaults, which could materially and negatively impact the value of our credit card portfolio, our results of operations and liquidity, including our borrowing base under our Amended Credit Facility. There are risks associated with Internet sales. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our website, www.talbots.com. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; liability for online content; violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; credit card fraud; the failure of the computer systems that operate our website and their related support systems, including computer viruses; and telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure of our systems, policies or procedures to protect against such risks could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We must protect against security breaches or other disclosures of private data of our customers as well as of our employees and other third parties. As part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain personal information about our customers, our employees and other third parties. The confidentiality of all of our internal private data must at all times be protected against security breaches or other disclosure. We have systems and processes in place that are designed 21 Table of Contents to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches by third parties or inadvertent data disclosure by us. Any failure to protect the confidential data of our customers or of our employees or other third parties could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We depend on a single distribution facility and a principal third party transportation company. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores and fulfillment of customer orders through our direct channel from a single facility in Lakeville, Massachusetts. A principal third party transportation company delivers our merchandise to our stores and our customers. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, epidemics, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores or our customers, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. We depend on information systems to manage our operations and any failure in or our inability to upgrade or maintain these systems could materially and adversely affect our operations. We depend on information systems to manage our operations. Our information systems consist of a full range of retail, e-commerce, catalog, financial, merchandising supply chain and business intelligence systems, including point-of-sale, sales reporting, credit management and authorization, a fully functional e-commerce website, order and customer management, inventory distribution and control, accounts payable, procurement, payroll, product design, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise planning and reporting and our enterprise data warehouse supporting business intelligence. We regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems and believe they meet industry standards. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these systems or in integrating these systems with our current systems or any disruptions affecting our information systems could have a material adverse impact on our operations. The outcome of litigation and other claims is unpredictable and any rulings not in our favor could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are and may become subject to litigation, claims and administrative proceedings for which we cannot or may not be able to predict or determine the ultimate outcome or quantify the potential financial impact. Because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims and administrative proceedings, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, the loss, expense or other amounts attributable to any such matter. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for a more detailed discussion of certain current litigation and other proceedings. We have significantly reduced our headcount which may impact our operating efficiency and our ability to hire and retain talented personnel. As part of our cost reduction initiative, we have substantially reduced our corporate and operations headcount, including management level employees and distribution and field employees. Because we now operate with significantly fewer individuals who have additional duties and responsibilities, we may encounter problems in our operating performance and our operating efficiency. We could also have additional workforce reductions in the future or limit our salary increases or incentive compensation opportunities. Any of these actions may impact our operations and operating efficiencies and could also reduce our ability to hire and retain talented personnel, including personnel who are key to our operations. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain the value of our brand, sales are likely to decline. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively define, evolve, promote and protect the value of our brand. The Talbots brand name and “tradition transformed” niche is integral to the success of our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of the brand’s design, merchandising and marketing efforts and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Additionally, we may need to increase our investment in the development of our brand through various means, including customer research, increased prospecting, direct mailings, marketing, advertising and promotional events. For fiscal 2012, as part of our cost reduction initiative, we expect to significantly reduce our marketing spend which could slow or otherwise adversely impact our brand image, brand awareness and customer acquisition and retention efforts. Additionally, our brand could be adversely impacted by any failure to achieve profitability or positive business results or any perceived uncertainty created in connection with our strategic review process. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or disclosures concerning us or any of our competitors, our strategic review process, our sales and profitability, any quarterly variations in operating results or comparable sales and any failure to meet sales or earnings expectations, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our ongoing review of strategic alternatives may pose additional risks to our business. On December 6, 2011, we received an unsolicited proposal from a third party to acquire the Company. Later that month, our Board of Directors informed that third party that the Board of Directors had considered and evaluated the terms of the proposed transaction and concluded that the proposal was inadequate. On December 20, 2011, our Board of Directors announced that it had resolved to explore a full range of strategic alternatives to maximize value for Talbots stockholders. This process is ongoing, and the Board of Directors has not set a definitive timetable for the completion of its evaluation. Our exploration of strategic alternatives, including any uncertainty created by this process, involves a number of risks, including: • our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the strategic review process or market speculation regarding any such developments; • if any proposal results in a change in control, it could significantly change our business; • we may incur losses of revenue occasioned by the distraction of management during this process or as a result of developments or actions relating to it; • we may experience limitations on our ability to execute effectively upon our business plans because of competing demands on management’s time and attention; • we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; • we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with the need to retain and compensate third party consultants; • we may incur increased legal fees and associated costs in connection with this process or any developments or actions relating to it; • we may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships or arrangements with key suppliers, our exclusive sourcing agent, landlords and other parties whose actions have significant influence over our business; 23 Table of Contents • we may incur increased legal fees and associated costs in connection with any lawsuits that may be brought as a result of this process, any developments or actions relating to it, any future developments or actions or our response to them; • we may experience difficulties in preserving the commercially sensitive confidential information that may need to be disclosed to competitors and other persons during this process or in connection with an assessment of our strategic alternatives; and • we may encounter disruption of and instability in our employee and customer bases. There can be no assurance that this process will result in the pursuit or consummation of any strategic transaction. During this process, we do not intend to publicly disclose the status of the evaluation, provide interim updates or announce or otherwise disclose developments (whether or not material) related to the strategic review process. The occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. In addition, any uncertainty generated by this process may impact our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel, including our ability to attract and recruit a new Chief Executive Officer. Our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Effective August 1, 2011, we adopted a stockholder rights plan which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or a change in our management or Board of Directors, even in situations that may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. The rights plan may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire a large interest without first negotiating with our Board of Directors. These deterrents could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. If for any reason we do not meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted. The continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) require, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 for over 30 consecutive trading days as well as that our market capitalization meet certain minimum levels. Even if a listed company meets the numerical continued listing criteria, the NYSE reserves the right to assess the suitability of the continued listing of a company on a case-by-case basis whenever it deems it appropriate and will consider factors such as unsatisfactory financial condition or operating results or inability to meet debt obligations or adequately finance operations. We generally would have a specified period of time to cure any non-compliance, and we would expect to take steps to endeavor to cure any such non-compliance should we fall below the NYSE’s requirements. However, if at the end of any cure period we were unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting, which may reduce the liquidity of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, each of which may negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 