Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors are important to understanding any statements in this Report, in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in any other discussions of our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Report. In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our liquidity, business, financial condition, or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as referred to in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The sustained and expanding adverse U.S. economic conditions continue to substantially impact our business. The disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels and has significantly and adversely impacted U.S. and global economic conditions and consumer discretionary spending. These continuing economic conditions substantially impact our sales, margins, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. These economic conditions materially and adversely impact consumer confidence and consumer spending; our ability to forecast our continuing operations and operating results; our ability to execute and achieve our strategic, operational, restructuring and cost saving initiatives; our vendors and suppliers and the risk of any disruption in the supply of merchandise to us; our cash flows and other sources of funding of our continuing operations, strategic initiatives, restructure activities, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and the obligations arising in the normal operation of our business; the sale of our J. Jill business; and our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing at the times and in the amounts as may be needed. We are unable to predict the likely duration or ultimate severity of the U.S. economic conditions, and if the current and economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business, continuing operations, financial results, liquidity and financial position would be increasingly materially and adversely impacted. Further, a sustained economic downturn would likely cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood and scope. We continue to incur net operating losses which may continue until U.S. economic conditions improve. We have continued to incur net operating losses and our existing operations are not generating positive cash flow, which may continue until U.S. economic conditions and consumer discretionary spending improve. In response to these economic conditions and our sales and operating performance, we have taken the following working capital and other financing actions: • In April of 2009, we obtained a new $150.0 million secured revolving loan facility from AEON which matures upon the earlier of (i) April 17, 2010 or (ii) one or more securitization programs or structured loans by the Company or its subsidiaries in an aggregate equivalent principal amount to the revolving loan commitment amount, approved in advance by AEON as lender and in form and substance satisfactory to the lender. Funding under this facility is subject to mortgage and lien recordings and all necessary consents or waivers by existing lenders to the transactions contemplated by the agreement, including the granting of liens and mortgages in favor of AEON under the facility, without such lender requiring prepayment of its indebtedness or the establishment of a pari passu lien on the collateral in favor of such lender. Amounts may be borrowed, repaid, and reborrowed under the facility and may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. 12 • In February of 2009 we refinanced through AEON our outstanding $200 million term loan, which now no longer requires scheduled principal amortization prior to the loan maturity date, which greatly added to our liquidity and financial flexibility, resulting in anticipated fiscal 2009 cash flow improvement of approximately $75 million. The facility matures on August 31, 2009, provided that we will have the option to extend the maturity for additional six month periods, up to the third anniversary of the loan closing date, which is February 27, 2012. • In February of 2009, AEON guaranteed our outstanding debt under our existing working capital facilities totaling $165 million, our existing revolving credit facilities totaling $80 million, and our existing $20 million term loan facility. In April of 2009 AEON also agreed (i) that it would agree to continue to provide a guaranty for a refinancing of any of that debt, which currently matures at various dates on and before April 16, 2010 and (ii) if the lender failed to agree to refinance that debt on or before the existing maturity date, or if any other condition occurred that required AEON to make a payment under its existing guaranty, AEON would make a loan to us, due on or after April 16, 2010 and within the limits of AEON’s existing loan guaranty, to avoid any lack of our financial resources caused by any such failure of refinancing. In April of 2009 AEON also confirmed its support for our working capital improvements initiatives for our merchandise payables management and that it will use commercially reasonable effort to provide us with financial support through loan or guarantee up to $25 million only if, and to the extent that, we may possibly fall short in achieving our targeted cash flow improvement for fall 2009 merchandise payables. • In July of 2008, we entered into a $50 million subordinated working capital term loan facility with AEON (U.S.A.), Inc. (“AEON (U.S.A.)”), our majority shareholder and a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEON; • In early 2009, we eliminated all financial covenants ratios from our debt agreements. Our ability to operate profitably and to generate positive cash flows is dependant upon many factors, including improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and our ability to successfully execute our fiscal 2009 and longer term financial plan and our strategic initiatives. We will need financing or other liquidity sources to replace or refinance our working capital and revolving credit facilities which are due to expire at various dates in 2009 and 2010, unless further extended or refinanced by the existing lenders or by AEON pursuant to its refinancing support letter, and for the AEON secured revolving loan facility when it matures in 2010, as well as for other debt as it matures. Further, while we currently anticipate, based on our current assumptions and forecast for fiscal 2009, that we have developed a financial plan for fiscal 2009 that if successfully executed will provide sufficient liquidity to finance our anticipated working capital and other currently expected cash needs for fiscal 2009, there nevertheless can be no certainty and we may need additional financing or credit availability for our near and longer term cash needs. Our ability to obtain additional financing depends upon many factors, including our financial projections and our prospects and creditworthiness, as well as external economic conditions and general liquidity in the credit markets. There can be no assurance that any of these efforts will be successful or, if successful, will be sufficient in the amounts or at the time needed. We may not be able to achieve our expected improvement in operating results, working capital and cash flows. As a specialty retailer dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we expect to continue to face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009 as global economic conditions have continued into our fiscal 2009 first quarter and impacted our sales, cash flows and operating results. In response to these conditions, we have taken the following actions, among others: • In April of 2009 we obtained new working capital financing; • In February of 2009 we began to implement our $150 million expense reduction program; • We have indefinitely suspended our quarterly dividend and frozen our defined benefit pension plans; • We have reduced our fiscal 2009 planned capital expenditures by approximately 40% over fiscal 2008, and continue to control spending; and 13 • We have been effectively managing our inventory, with year end fiscal 2008 inventories down 21.3% over the prior year, and we plan to continue to lower our inventory levels through effectively managing our inventory throughout fiscal 2009. However, our ability to successfully achieve improvement in our operating results, working capital, and liquidity depends upon a significant number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the continuation or further worsening of general economic conditions; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the amounts we may need to fund our strategic plans, outstanding debt and operating losses; • extensions of the commitment and maturity dates of our existing credit facilities; • our ability to successfully execute other liquidity enhancing plans or transactions; • achieving our sales plan for fiscal 2009; • achieving our cash flow plan for fiscal 2009, particularly during our peak inventory build-ups in advance of principal selling seasons; • adequate and uninterrupted supply of merchandise, and continuation of merchandise purchases on open account purchase terms from merchandise vendors at expected levels and with extended invoice payment dates; • our ability to sell our J. Jill brand business on acceptable terms; • whether our strategic and cost saving actions will sufficiently improve our results, operating efficiencies, cash flows and liquidity; • our ability to reduce cash spending in amounts and at the times needed; • effective inventory management; • any unanticipated changes in expected cash flows and liquidity; • our ability to adequately respond to greater competitive pressures; • our ability to adequately respond to changing fashion trends and consumers’ response to our merchandise; and • our ability to adjust our operating plans in response to changing economic conditions. We cannot provide assurances that any of these or other factors, plans and initiatives will be resolved or occur in our favor and, if not, our business, financial results and liquidity could be materially and adversely impacted. We may not be able to extend the maturity dates of our existing credit facilities. We currently have committed working capital facilities totaling $165 million with four banks with whom we have had a long-term relationship, and which expire in December 2009. We also currently have outstanding debt of $80 million under our revolving credit facilities with certain of these same lenders, which, unless further extended, currently have expiration dates on and before April 16, 2010. The revolving credit facilities with these lenders have been in place, at varying amounts, for a number of years and have generally matured for periods of up to not more than two years, subject to further extension in the discretion of the lender. We are customarily fully borrowed against each of these revolving loan facilities. In February of 2009, AEON guaranteed the above working capital and revolving credit facilities, as well as a $20 million term loan. In April of 2009, AEON also agreed (i) that it would agree to continue to provide a guaranty for a refinancing of any of that debt, which currently matures at various dates on and before April 16, 2010 and (ii) if the lender failed to agree to refinance that debt on or before the existing maturity date, or if any other condition occurred that required AEON to make a payment under its existing guaranty, AEON would make a loan to us, due on or after April 16, 2010 and within the limits of AEON’s existing loan guaranty, to avoid any lack of our financial 14 resources caused by any such failure of refinancing. Together with AEON, we are in discussions with each of these lenders to secure a further extension of the maturity date of the above working capital facilities and each of the revolving credit facilities, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. If we are not able to obtain all or any of the above credit facilities refinancing or extensions from these lenders, we may need to obtain replacement financing or other alternative financing to replace any of our existing working capital, revolving loan or term loan facilities, or of any refinancing loan provided to us by AEON under its support letter to us. There can be no assurance that we will successfully consummate any such replacement financing or other transactions to replace any expiring or maturing financing. Our 2009 financial and strategic plans are based on a number of material assumptions which may not occur. Over the past eighteen months we have initiated a significant number of strategic and realignment actions and continue to develop further plans to improve our operating efficiency, our cash flows and liquidity, and our long term profitability. These initiatives have included workforce reductions, implementing operating initiatives designed to improve efficiencies and generate cost savings, closing underperforming stores, restructuring our business to a design-driven merchandise organization, benefit plan reductions, and other realignment initiatives. Our 2009 financial plan and strategic initiatives are based on a number of significant assumptions which we developed based on our historical information, current and expected economic conditions, and expectations and perceptions of our near-term and longer-term sales, financial results and cost savings, as well as many other assumptions. We have forecasted substantial cost savings from many of these initiatives based on a number of significant assumptions and expectations, which if achieved would improve cash flows and liquidity. The current economic environment makes it difficult to project or forecast the costs of and results to be achieved from these initiatives. There can be no assurance that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate and it is likely that actual events, actions taken and results actually achieved will be materially different, and could be more costly, than what we have assumed or forecasted, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Even if we are successful in executing these strategic and realignment plans, there can be no assurance that the results achieved will be sufficient to offset or sufficiently negate the impact of the current poor economic condition or our operating results. Any disruption in our supply of merchandise would materially impact us. All of our merchandise is manufactured to our specifications by third-party suppliers and intermediary vendors, most of whom are located outside the United States. Historically, our merchandise purchases had been pursuant to and secured by letter of credit arrangements in favor of our foreign suppliers and vendors and their credit sources. Beginning more than a year ago we moved substantially all of our merchandise suppliers and vendors to open account purchase terms with payments approximately 45 days after shipment. With the continuation of the global economic conditions and its impact on consumer discretionary spending and our sales, particularly during the second half of 2008 and into 2009, we extended many of our accounts payable terms to approximately 60 days. These cash management actions significantly improved cash flow and we plan to continue this accounts payable management going forward. These payment terms have increased pressure from our merchandise vendors for payment in accordance with terms and have also increased pressures on these vendors from their own credit sources. While these extended payment terms have not to date resulted in any material interruption in our merchandise supply, there can be no assurance that one or more of our vendors may not slow or cease shipments or require or condition their sale or shipment of merchandise on more stringent payment terms. Our suppliers and vendors could respond to any actual or apparent decrease in our liquidity or negative financial results by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on much more stringent payment terms, such as requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices or payment upon delivery, or other assurances or credit support. If this was to occur and we did not or were not able to adequately respond, it could disrupt our supply of merchandise and could require us to find other vendors, which may not be available at the times needed. 15 If our goodwill or other intangible assets become further impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. We review our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually, or when events indicate that the carrying value of such asset may be impaired. Due to the declines in our sales, stock price, and market capitalization that occurred in the fiscal 2008 fourth quarter, we were required to perform an interim test of our Talbots brand goodwill and trademark for impairment. After completion of the tests, we concluded that no impairment existed as of January 31, 2009. We review the carrying value of our assets for potential impairment using a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and a market value approach. If an impairment is identified, the carrying value is compared to our estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. Impairment losses are significantly impacted by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. Our estimates of future operating cash flows are based upon our experience, knowledge and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. The carrying value of our assets may also be impacted by such factors as declines in stock price and in market capitalization. The recent macro-economic conditions have impacted both our performance as well as our stock price and market capitalization, and it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate, and which aspects of our business may be adversely affected. These conditions and the continuation of these conditions could impact the fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future material impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Due to the announcement to pursue the sale of our J. Jill business, we were required to estimate the fair value of this business, which resulted in an impairment charge of approximately $186 million in the third quarter of 2008 which is reflected in discontinued operations. Additionally, due to the current volatility in the economic environment and the decline in our stock price and market capitalization, we further reduced the fair value of the J. Jill brand business in the fourth quarter of 2008 and recorded an additional impairment charge of approximately $131 million, which is reflected in discontinued operations. Although we believe that we will sell the J. Jill business within the next year, we cannot provide assurances that a sale of the brand business will occur. If the sale does not occur or if the proceeds are less than we currently estimate, we may have to recognize further material impairments, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We will need sufficient liquidity to fund the closing of our underperforming stores. We regularly assess our portfolio of stores for profitability and we close underperforming stores when appropriate. Our strategic and realignment plans include closing underperforming stores in order to reduce operating losses and to achieve improved long term profitability of our store base. The current economic conditions, which are expected to continue through fiscal 2009 and possibly beyond, may require us to close an increasing number of underperforming stores. Substantially all of our stores are leased, with lease terms continuing for up to ten years or more, and we have significant annual rent and other amounts due under each lease. While in closing underperforming stores we endeavor to negotiate with landlords the amount of remaining lease obligations, there is no assurance we will reach acceptable negotiated lease settlements, particularly in the current economic environment. As a result, costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. The estimated costs and charges associated with store closings are also based on management’s assumptions and projections and actual amounts may vary materially from our forecasts and expectations. Further, in light of the current economic environment, many other retailers have publicly announced plans to reduce their store bases and to close a number of their retail stores, many of which are in the same leased locations and with the same landlords as the stores we operate, including those stores that we currently have developed plans to close or in the future may determine to close. As a result, negotiations for lease terminations with these landlords may be less favorable than in the past. There can be no assurance of our success in selling our J. Jill business, nor the price or terms of such sale, and if a sale is consummated we may remain contingently responsible for certain risks and obligations. In November 2008, we announced our plan to sell J. Jill and we are actively pursing the sale at this time. We report our J. Jill financial results as discontinued operations. There can be no assurance that a sale or other 16 disposition of the J. Jill business will be consummated on favorable terms or on terms we would find acceptable. If such disposition is not consummated, our Board of Directors and management and its advisors would need to review and consider all strategic alternatives concerning the J. Jill business, under any of which alternatives we would expect to incur substantial costs. Depending on the structure of the sale, we may not be able to isolate ourselves from and may likely remain contingently liable for certain obligations and liabilities transferred as part of the J. Jill business, including those related to litigation, contracts, leases and other obligations. If there were to occur any material default on any such obligation following a sale which the buyer fails to satisfy or fully indemnify us against, it could have a material negative impact on us. Further, while the terms of leases generally permit transfers of leases without third party consent under specified conditions, which vary from lease to lease, there can be no assurance that those conditions will apply in each case. Furthermore, with respect to a buyer of the J. Jill business, we would need to rely on that party’s creditworthiness as a counterparty. Our level of indebtedness impacts our ability to respond to the changes in the economy. Our current level of indebtedness requires significant interest payments and will require substantial principal repayment, when and as due, which reduces the funds available for other purposes, limits our ability to obtain additional financing, and makes us more susceptible to further declines in economic conditions and to a lengthy recessionary cycle. Further, additional debt levels will increase our debt service costs and, absent improvement in general economic conditions and in consumer discretionary spending, make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations including our debt service obligations. There is no assurance that we will at all times be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for these debt obligations and our other obligations, in which event we would be required to seek additional debt or equity financing, including seeking to sell, collateralize or securitize certain of our assets, which may not be available at the times or amounts needed. We are subject to credit risk and to potential increased defaults and delinquencies on our customer charge card account portfolio. We extend credit to our customers for merchandise purchases through our proprietary charge card facilities. While we monitor our charge card account portfolio and we believe that our charge card account portfolio continues to be sound, the deteriorated economic environment and increasingly high levels of unemployment may lead to higher customer delinquencies and defaults. There can be no assurance that our credit risk monitoring or our monitoring of our charge card account portfolio will guard against or enable us to adequately and timely respond to any increased risk of or actual increased customer delinquencies or defaults, which could materially and negatively impact the value of our charge card portfolio, our results of operations and liquidity, and our ability to securitize that portfolio on favorable or acceptable terms. Any customer concerns with our long term sustainability as a business may impact our merchandise sales. In addition to the significant negative impact on consumer discretionary spending resulting from the general economic conditions, if our customers perceive any uncertainty as to our long term success, profitability or sustainability, they may choose to spend less with us, including purchases of our gift cards redeemable for merchandise in the future, which accounts for significant sales particularly during holiday selling seasons. Any such decrease in consumer spending in our stores or over the Internet would negatively impact our sales, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. The continued listing requirements of the NYSE applicable to us require, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days and that the average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period be at least $75 million. The application of the continued listing requirement regarding average closing price has been suspended temporarily until June 30, 2009, but there can be no assurance that the NYSE will extend this temporary suspension beyond that date. If we are notified by the NYSE that we have not met continued listing requirements, we generally would have a six-month period to take action to meet the minimum price requirements, and potentially 17 up to an eighteen-month period to take action to meet minimum market capitalization requirements, before our common stock could be suspended for trading or delisted, subject to continued compliance with other NYSE continued listing criteria. We would intend to take steps to cure any such non-compliance should we fall below the NYSE’s requirements, but if at the end of any cure period, we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing; our common stock would be subject to delisting. Even if a listed company meets the numerical continued listing criteria, the NYSE reserves the right to assess the suitability of the continued listing of a company on a case-by-case basis whenever it deems appropriate and will consider factors such as unsatisfactory financial condition or operating results. A delisting of our common stock would negatively impact us by, among other factors, reducing the liquidity and likely market price of our common stock and reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, each of which would negatively impact our stock price as well as our ability to raise equity financing. Our loan agreements contain provisions which may restrict our operations and proposed financing and strategic transactions. There are various covenants and other restrictions in our loan agreements which among other things restrict our ability to pay dividends and restrict our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of or pledge or collateralize certain assets, or engage in mergers or other business combinations without lender consent. Under the terms of our term loan agreement with AEON, we are subject to mandatory prepayment obligations as follows: 50% of excess cash flow; 100% of net cash proceeds of any sale of J. Jill and 75% of net cash proceeds on any other asset sales or dispositions; and 100% of net cash proceeds of any non-related party debt issuances and 50% of net cash proceeds of any equity issuances (subject to such exceptions the lender may agree to). In addition, under each of our AEON and AEON (U.S.A.) loan facilities, we may not incur, assume, guarantee or otherwise become or remain liable with respect to any indebtedness other than permitted indebtedness as defined in the agreement. Written consent of AEON in its discretion in its capacity as lender is required prior to incurrence of indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes (including mergers, consolidations, etc.), dispositions of property (including sales of stock of subsidiaries), dividends (and other restricted payments), investments, transactions with affiliates and other related parties, sale leaseback transactions, swap agreements, changes in fiscal periods, negative pledge clauses, and clauses restricting subsidiary distributions, all on terms (and exceptions) set forth in the loan agreements. We are also limited in our ability to purchase or make commitments for capital expenditures in excess of amounts approved by AEON in its capacity as lender. Any of the above requirements could reduce our flexibility by limiting, without lender consent, our ability to borrow additional funds or enter into dispositions or collateralizations or securitizations of our assets or other significant transactions. Further, if we default under our loan agreements, any amounts outstanding could become due and payable prior to their maturity dates, in which case absent replacement financing we would not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy this debt. Due to cross-default provisions in our loan agreements, a default under one of our loan agreements could be cause for the acceleration of outstanding debt under other of our loan agreements. The $150.0 million secured revolving loan has a maturity date of the earlier to occur of (i) April 17, 2010 or (ii) consummation of one or more securitization programs or structured loans by the Company or its subsidiaries in an aggregate equivalent principal amount to the revolving loan commitment amount of $150.0 million, approved in advance by the lender and in form and substance satisfactory to the lender. We recently suspended payment of dividends on our common stock and we cannot predict when payment of dividends may resume, if at all. As part of our strategic and cost saving initiatives, we announced on March 2, 2009 that we had suspended payment of the regular dividend on our common stock. Dividends on our common stock had been paid regularly since we began as a public company in 1993. There is no assurance as to when, if at all, we will resume dividend payments on our common stock. Payment of dividends is also subject to contractual restrictions under our term 18 loans with AEON, and are also subject to restrictions and limitations under Delaware corporate law and other applicable statutory and common law, which may limit payment of dividends in the future. We may not be able to maintain proper inventory levels. Customer demand is difficult to predict since the design process begins well in advance of the date the products are to be sold. We must anticipate trends and customer demand well ahead of time in order to accurately maintain inventory levels. This lag in lead time makes responding to changes quickly difficult and any misjudgments in customer preferences can be detrimental to earnings as well as customer satisfaction. In addition, we have and are continuing to take significant steps to improve inventory management, such as managing leaner inventories, changing our markdown cadence, and the implementation of a price optimizing software tool. We cannot provide assurance that these steps will continue to be successful in improving merchandise gross margins. Moreover, inventory levels in excess of customer demand result in inventory markdowns and movement of the inventory to our outlet facilities to be sold at discount or closeout prices which would negatively impact operating results and could impair our brand image. In contrast to that scenario, if we underestimate customer demand or for any other reason fail to supply adequate levels of quality products in a timely manner, we could experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales opportunities, negative impact on customer loyalty and loss of revenues. The inability to fill customer orders efficiently could lower customer satisfaction and could cause customers to go to an alternate source for the desired products. This lowered level of customer satisfaction and improper inventory levels could adversely affect our operations. We may continue to experience fluctuations in operating results. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are customers’ response to merchandise offerings, closing existing stores and concepts, the timing of merchandise receipts, changes in merchandise mix and presentation, our cost of merchandise, unanticipated operating costs, and other factors beyond our control, including the general economic conditions experienced over the past twelve months as well as actions of competitors. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Our overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes it vulnerable to a number of risks. We purchase a significant portion of our merchandise directly from foreign sources. Approximately 84% of our Talbots brand merchandise purchased in 2008 was purchased directly from foreign sources. In addition, goods purchased from domestic vendors may be sourced abroad by such vendors. As a result, our business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • political and economic instability; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where we do business; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruption in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. We cannot predict whether the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories are currently manufactured or any of the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories may be manufactured in the future will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, applicable to apparel items 19 could affect the importation of apparel and, in that event, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our operations. We rely on third party manufacturers for our merchandise, including many foreign sources of merchandise. We have an extensive, formal program requiring all of our manufacturers to comply with applicable labor laws and acceptable labor practices. Any failure to comply with applicable labor laws and practices by any of these manufacturers could materially harm our reputation with our customers as well as disrupt our supply of merchandise. If we fail to maintain the value of our brand, sales are likely to decline. Our success will depend upon our ability to effectively define, evolve, and promote our Talbots brand. The Talbots brand name and “tradition transformed” niche is integral to the success of our business. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of the brand’s design, merchandising, and marketing efforts and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Additionally, we may need to increase investments in the development of our brand through various means, including customer research, prospecting, advertising and promotional events, direct mail and Internet marketing. While we believe that our objectives will help to build brand awareness and attract new customers, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient cash resources in fiscal 2009 necessary to further develop our brand or that our efforts will result in increased sales or profitability. Additionally, our brand could be adversely affected if our public image is tarnished by negative sales or poor operating performance. Talented personnel are critical to our success. We cannot assure that the current management team or the additions to our executive leadership team will result in increased profitability for us. Our success and ability to properly manage our growth depends to a significant extent on both the performance of our current executive and senior management team and our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain qualified and talented management personnel in the future. During 2007 and 2008, we hired a number of new key senior executives in the areas of brand leadership, creative, merchandising, marketing, finance, sourcing, and merchandise inventory planning and allocation. There can be no assurance that the new key hires will be successful in achieving better sales and other operating results or long-term profitability for us. Our inability to retain key personnel, or the loss of service of any other key employees, would likely adversely impact our results of operations. A major failure of our information systems could harm the business. We depend on information systems to manage our operations. Our information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial, and merchandising systems, including credit, inventory distribution and control, sales reporting, accounts payable, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise reporting, and distribution. We regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance, or replace such systems and believe they meet industry standards. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these new systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems, or any disruptions affecting our information systems, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Certain members of our Board of Directors are affiliated with our majority shareholder, which may create potential conflicts of interest. From time to time we enter into transactions with AEON and its subsidiaries, including AEON (U.S.A.). Certain of our directors, including the chairman of our Board of Directors, are executives of or otherwise affiliated with AEON and AEON (U.S.A.). As a result of these relationships, potential conflicts of interest may arise which could influence business decisions affecting us or transactions entered into between us and AEON and AEON (U.S.A.) and the terms of those transactions, including any loan or other similar arrangement. In July 2008, February 2009, and April 2009, we entered into loan agreements with AEON and AEON (U.S.A.), the terms of which are described in Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on July 18, 2008, March 2, 2009, and April 14, 2009, respectively. The principal terms of these transactions were reviewed with and approved by our independent Audit Committee, and we expect that any material arrangement entered into with AEON or AEON (U.S.A.) in the future 20 would be similarly reviewed. However, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transaction or arrangement between AEON, or AEON (U.S.A.) and the Company would be as favorable as any terms that could be achieved as the product of arms’ length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Related person transactions between us and AEON or AEON (U.S.A.), as well as our policy and procedures for approving any related person transactions, are described in our proxy statements filed annually in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The foregoing list of risk factors is not intended to be exhaustive. We cannot assure that we have identified and discussed all of the significant factors which might affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition. Investors are urged to review this entire Annual Report as well as all of our other public disclosures and our filings with the SEC, all of which may be found on our website at www.thetalbotsinc.com under “Investor Relations”. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 