Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K, other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in any other discussions of the Company’s business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect the business, financial condition, and/or operating results of the Company. The continued worsening of the U.S. economy has and can be expected to have a material negative impact on consumer purchases of discretionary items, which can be expected to continue to have a material adverse impact on the Company’s level of sales and profitability. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industry, including: • general business conditions; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • taxation; • employment levels; • political conditions such as war, terrorism and political unrest; • consumer confidence in future economic conditions; • real estate market; and • increasing energy prices. The U.S. economy is currently experiencing significant and worsening macro-economic issues, including tightening of U.S. credit markets, residential real estate crisis, recessionary and inflationary pressures, high energy prices, declining value of the U.S. dollar, higher unemployment rates, and stock market declines, which the Company believes has negatively impacted its business and will continue to do so in the future. The Company believes that consumer purchases of discretionary items have declined and may continue to decline during periods of a negative economic environment and other periods where disposable income is lower. A continued downturn in the economies in which the Company sells its products, whether in the U.S. or abroad, may adversely affect the Company’s level of sales, results of operations, and the potential willingness of lenders to increase or provide financing. 14 Table of Contents The Company expects to purchase a substantial part of its merchandise inventory going forward through “open account” purchase terms from its vendors, without the use of letter of credit facilities, which in the past have been used for these purchases. In connection with the continued tightening of the U.S. credit and lending markets, the Company’s banks providing its letter of credit facilities, which historically have been used by the Company for its merchandise purchases from foreign vendors, have not renewed or extended those facilities and the letter of credit facilities gradually reduce to zero during 2008. However, the Company has successfully negotiated “open account” terms, with improved payment terms, with those vendors that currently represent the majority of the Company’s merchandise purchases, and the Company may pursue open account terms with other merchandise vendors as well. These “open account” payment terms do not require letters of credit and are expected to largely offset the reduction and elimination of the letter of credit facilities. The negotiated new vendor payment terms are also expected to favorably impact cash flow. The Company is also pursuing new letter of credit arrangements with other lenders to utilize for certain inventory purchases, particularly for smaller merchandise vendors. The Company will continue to use the remaining balance of its letter of credit facility up to August 8, 2008, when it is reduced to zero, while it pursues a replacement letter of credit facility. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain new letter of credit facilities to cover merchandise purchases if and when needed or that the Company will at all times be able to purchase all of its merchandise inventory through open account payment terms with merchandise vendors. The Company’s capital resources required to fund its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service and operations are dependent upon cash flows from operations, cash on hand, credit extended from merchandise vendors, and availability under its credit facilities, and these cash resources may be negatively impacted by many factors, some of which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company’s primary sources of capital are cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand, and short-term line of credit facilities. The Company currently anticipates that cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings available under its short-term credit facilities will be sufficient to fund its liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, such sufficiency is dependent upon and may be adversely impacted by many factors, including: • achieving the Company’s sales plan for the year; • achieving the Company’s operating cash flow plan for the year, particularly during merchandise inventory build-ups in advance of the principal selling seasons; • continuation of merchandise purchases on open account purchase terms from merchandise vendors at expected levels; • replacement of the Company’s letter of credit facilities at levels sufficient to purchase adequate merchandise inventory from any vendors who require letters of credit for merchandise purchases; • the Company’s ability to obtain any necessary increases in its line of credit facilities if needed to fund operating plans; • the Company’s ability to reduce any cash spending in the amounts and at the times needed if borrowings available, cash on hand, and available credit are not sufficient to fund existing operating plans, merchandise purchases, planned capital expenditures and strategic initiatives; • successfully executing the Company’s strategic initiatives, including anticipated lower inventory levels and timing, expected operating expense reductions and other cost reductions, the success of the new promotional cadence for the Talbots brand, reduced markdown exposure and improved gross margins, the successful closing of the Talbots Kids and Talbots Mens business concepts, and the closing of other announced underperforming stores, including all stores within the United Kingdom; • the impact of the continued deterioration in the economic environment, including continued negative impact on U.S. consumer discretionary spending, current residential real estate downturn, the disruption and 15 Table of Contents significant tightening in the U.S. credit markets, recessionary and inflationary pressures, high energy prices, declining value of the U.S. dollar, higher unemployment rates and stock market declines; and • the Company’s ability to continue to satisfy its financial covenants under its existing debt agreements. There can be no assurance that the Company’s capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy its liquidity needs or that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing or other capital resource alternatives to fund its cash needs in the amounts or at the times needed. In the event the Company is unable to increase its borrowing availability under its credit facilities in the amounts and times needed, the Company would expect to explore other capital or financing sources or reduce spending. There can be no assurance that any such other capital or financing sources would be available in the amounts or in the time periods needed. The successful and timely execution of the Company’s strategic plan is critical to the Company’s short- term and long- term profitability. In October 2007, the Company announced that it had initiated a comprehensive strategic review of its business and engaged a leading global consulting firm to assist management in developing a strategic plan. This review included the following areas: brand positioning, productivity, store growth and store productivity, non-core concepts, distribution channels, the J. Jill brand, and other operating matters. The consulting firm completed its review in the first quarter of 2008, from which the Company developed a three-year strategic plan. The Company has announced a number of strategic initiatives in order to achieve its goal of achieving profitability and long-term shareholder value. These initiatives include exiting the Talbots Kids and Talbots Mens business concepts, revamping the marketing strategy including the promotional cadence for the Talbots brand, and developing a comprehensive plan to reduce the Company’s cost structure and operating expenses, among other initiatives. Successful implementation of these initiatives is critical to the Company’s short-term and long-term success and profitability. The Company cannot assure that the strategic and other operating initiatives being implemented as part of its revitalization plan will favorably impact the Company’s operations or will be successfully executed or executed in the time period projected. Any failure to successfully and timely implement these initiatives can be expected to negatively impact the Company’s operating results and profitability. In the event that the Company is at any time required to reduce its cash spending, whether as a result of insufficient available credit or otherwise, the Company may need to reduce or delay cash spending on one or more of its strategic initiatives, which could be expected to reduce or delay the positive benefits which the Company believes will result from these initiatives as part of its turnaround plans. The success of the business depends on the Company’s ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to originate and define fashion product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. The retail business fluctuates according to consumer preferences, dictated in part by fashion and season. Decisions with respect to product designs are generally made well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, both brands are undergoing significant personnel and operational changes to their merchandising areas. As a result, the Company is particularly vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and is less able to respond to customer demands or trends rapidly. To the extent the Company fails to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to consumer preferences, or to successfully integrate new personnel and operational changes, sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company incurred substantial debt to finance the J. Jill acquisition. The Company’s business may not generate significant cash flow to meet these obligations and the debt agreement restrictions may limit the Company’s activities. In February 2006, the Company entered into a $400.0 million bridge loan agreement in connection with its planned acquisition of J. Jill. In July 2006, the bridge loan was converted into a term loan (the “Acquisition Debt”) to 16 Table of Contents be repaid in equal quarterly installments over a five-year period. Additionally, since the acquisition, borrowings under the Company’s short-term facilities have been higher than it has historically experienced in order to meet current cash needs. The Company’s ability at all times to satisfy its obligations and to reduce its total debt depends on the Company’s future operating performance. The Company’s business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations. If the Company is unable to service its debt and fund its business, the Company may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, or seek additional financing or equity capital. There can be no assurance that the Company’s cash requirements will at all times be met by existing available borrowing facilities. Additionally, a majority of the Company’s outstanding debt accrues interest at variable rates; therefore, interest payment obligations on this indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. The Company’s Acquisition Debt agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit it, including restrictions on the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness, • make investments, • create liens, • sell assets, • enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and • consolidate, or merge. Although the Company has increased its borrowing capacity under its short-term line of credit facilities and expects to seek additional increased availability in the future, the Company’s ability to borrow under these facilities can be limited by the financial covenants in the Company’s Acquisition Debt agreement, including the leverage ratio which is impacted by total borrowings. The Company is also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of its Acquisition Debt agreement. The Company’s ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on its future performance. In addition, any failure by the Company to meet its sales plan at the Talbots brand or J. Jill brand at any time will cause reduced levels of sales and likely increase markdowns and clearance of unsold merchandise, which could negatively impact gross margin, profitability, and the Company’s ability to meet its financial covenants. The Company’s failure to comply with its restrictions or covenants would result in an event of default under its Acquisition Debt agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument as well as accelerate any other indebtedness under its other existing or subsequent credit facilities. This would require the Company to repay all of the debt before its scheduled due dates. If an event of default occurs, the Company may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under its indebtedness. There can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy its financial covenants and other covenants as of each determination date. If the Company determines that it is likely that it will not satisfy any of these financial or other covenants, either as a result of our actual or expected operating results or borrowing needs or otherwise, the Company would expect to seek a waiver or an amendment of such covenants. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in obtaining any such waiver or amendment. The Company may not be able to maintain proper inventory levels. Customer demand is difficult to predict since the design process begins well in advance of the date the products are to be sold. The Company must anticipate trends and customer demand well ahead of time in order to accurately maintain inventory levels. This lag in lead time makes responding to changes quickly difficult and any misjudgments in customer preferences can be detrimental to earnings as well as customer satisfaction. In addition, the Company is taking significant steps to improve inventory management by managing leaner inventories, changing its markdown cadence, and the implementation of a price optimizing software tool. The Company cannot provide assurance that these steps will be successfully implemented. Moreover, inventory levels in excess of customer demand could result in inventory markdowns or movement of the inventory to the Company’s outlet facilities to be sold at discount or closeout prices which could negatively impact operating results and impair 17 Table of Contents the Company’s brand image. In contrast to that scenario, if the Company underestimates customer demand or for any other reason fails to supply adequate levels of quality products in a timely manner, the Company could experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales opportunities, negative impact on customer loyalty and loss of revenues. The inability to fill customer orders efficiently could lower customer satisfaction and could cause customers to go to an alternate source for the desired products. This lowered level of customer satisfaction and improper inventory levels could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with national department stores as well as regional department store chains. The Company also competes with other specialty retailers and catalog companies. The Company is faced with a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • developing high quality merchandise in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; • appropriately managing inventory levels; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; • effectively marketing the Company’s products to consumers; and • pricing the Company’s merchandise appropriately. Increased competition could cause the Company’s sales and margins to be reduced and adversely affect results of operations. The Company may not be able to successfully reposition J. Jill’s operations. The Company acquired J. Jill in May 2006. J. Jill sales have not been at the levels that the Company originally anticipated and therefore the Company was required to record an impairment charge of $149.6 million on the acquired goodwill and trademark. The Company’s ability to continue to grow and sustain long-term profitability may depend upon effectively improving the operating performance and growing the J. Jill business. The realization of revenue growth, additional cost savings or synergies related to J. Jill will depend largely upon the Company’s ability to: • implement key design changes to the J. Jill brand merchandise that will lead to increased sales; • appropriately price the J. Jill brand merchandise; • open J. Jill brand stores in locations where operations will be profitable; and • refine and unify the J. Jill brand’s marketing and promotional programs. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully execute any of the actions above or that the Company’s strategies for the J. Jill brand will achieve the results necessary to generate profits. If the Company fails to improve the J. Jill operations or cannot successfully execute its growth strategy, the Company’s results will be adversely impacted and future impairment charges may be recognized. The Company cannot assure that its change in growth strategy will result in improved profitability. The Company has adjusted its strategy to build on five key growth platforms: Talbots Woman, Talbots Accessories & Shoes, Talbots Collection, J. Jill brand, and penetration into premium-level outlets, rather than continuing to open new stores at its historical levels. The Company is also committed to regularly assessing the portfolio of its brand stores for profitability and to closing underperforming stores when appropriate. In 2008 the Company expects to close approximately 95 underperforming stores, including all remaining 75 stores associated with the Talbots Kids and Talbots Mens business concepts and all three stores within the United Kingdom. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in negotiating settlements with the respective landlords and that the cost will not exceed the anticipated amounts. Additionally, during 2008, the Company plans to open approximately 27 Talbots brand stores and 19 J. Jill brand stores, which is 39% fewer stores than 2007. The Company’s planned expansion is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the 18 Table of Contents level of sales volume and profitability at existing store locations, the availability of sufficient capital resources to support expansion plans, the continuing availability of desirable locations, the ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for prospective new and expanded locations, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, and integrating new stores into its existing operations. There is no assurance that the Company’s changed growth strategy will lead to improved operating results. There also can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its planned growth strategy or that such growth will be profitable or that the Company will be able to manage its growth effectively. Talented personnel are critical to the Company’s success. The Company cannot assure that the current management team or the additions to the Company’s executive leadership team will result in increased profitability for the Company. The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent on both the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain qualified and talented management personnel in the future. During 2007 and early 2008, the Company hired a number of new key senior executives in the areas of brand leadership, creative, merchandising, marketing, and merchandise inventory planning and allocation. There can be no assurance that the new key hires will be successful in achieving better sales and other operating results or long-term profitability for the Company. Additionally, the Company’s inability to retain these personnel, or the loss of service of any other key employees, would likely adversely impact the Company’s operations. The Company experiences fluctuations in comparable store sales results. Comparable stores are those that were open for at least one full fiscal year. When a new Talbots Petites store, Talbots Woman store, or Talbots Accessories & Shoes store is opened adjacent to or in close proximity to an existing comparable Misses store, such Misses store is excluded from the computation of comparable store sales for a period of 13 months so that the performance of the full Misses assortment may be properly compared. The Company’s comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, and are expected to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales results, including changes in fashion trends, timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, timing of catalog mailings, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales are not an indicator of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s comparable store sales will not decrease in the future. The Company’s comparable store sales performance is likely to have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company experiences fluctuations in operating results. The Company’s annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Among the factors that may cause the Company’s operating results to fluctuate are customers’ response to merchandise offerings, the timing of the rollout of new stores, closing existing stores and concepts, seasonal variations in sales, the timing and size of catalog mailings, the costs of producing and mailing catalogs, the timing of merchandise receipts, the level of merchandise returns, changes in merchandise mix and presentation, the Company’s cost of merchandise, unanticipated operating costs, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. As a result of these factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. In addition, similar to all specialty retailers, the Company can be expected to face the impact of the continued deterioration in the economic environment, including continued negative impact on U.S. consumer discretionary spending, current residential real estate downturn, the disruption and significant tightening in the U.S. credit markets, recessionary and inflationary pressures, high energy prices, declining value of the U.S. dollar, higher unemployment rates and stock market declines. If the Company fails to maintain the value of its brands, sales are likely to decline. The Company’s success will depend upon its ability to effectively define, evolve, and promote its brands. The Talbots brand name and “classic” niche as well as the J. Jill brand name and “sophisticated casual” niche is integral 19 Table of Contents to the success of the brand’s businesses. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning the Company’s brands will depend largely on the success of the brand’s design, merchandising, and marketing efforts and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Additionally, the Company may need to increase investments in the development of the brands through various means, including customer research, increased prospecting, advertising and promotional events, direct mail and Internet marketing. While the Company believes that its objectives will help to build brand awareness and attract new customers, the Company cannot provide assurance that they will result in increased sales or profitability. Additionally, the Company’s brands could be adversely affected if the Company’s public image is tarnished by negative sales or poor operating performance. The Company cannot assure that Internet sales will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth. The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites, www.talbots.com and www.jjill.com. The Company’s Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures, and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The Internet operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations, including potential electronic break-ins or other security breaches, hiring, retention and training of personnel to conduct the Company’s Internet operations, diversion of sales from the Company’s stores, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, violations of state or federal privacy laws, and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and similar disruptions. The many risks associated with Internet sales could cause a decline in consumer confidence which could reduce Internet sales. There can be no assurance that the Company’s Internet operations will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. The Company could be adversely affected if any of its distribution centers are shut down. The Company operates store distribution and catalog fulfillment facilities in Lakeville, Massachusetts, and Tilton, New Hampshire for all of its U.S. stores and worldwide catalog operations. If one center were to be shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other center may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution and fulfillment demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each center services a particular brand. As a result, the Company could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing merchandise to its stores and/or fulfill catalog and Internet orders, which could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes it vulnerable to a number of risks. The Company purchases a significant portion of its merchandise directly from foreign sources. Approximately 78% of the Talbots brand merchandise and 87% of the J. Jill brand merchandise purchased in 2007 was purchased directly from foreign sources. In addition, goods purchased from domestic vendors may be sourced abroad by such vendors. As a result, the Company’s business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • political instability; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where the Company does business; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruption in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. The Company cannot predict whether the foreign countries in which the Company’s apparel and accessories are currently manufactured or any of the foreign countries in which the Company’s apparel and accessories may be manufactured in the future will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, 20 Table of Contents applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel and, in that event, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company relies on third party manufacturers for its merchandise, including many foreign sources of merchandise. The Company has an extensive, formal program requiring all of its manufacturers to comply with applicable labor laws and acceptable labor practices. Any failure to comply with applicable labor laws and practices by any of these manufacturers could materially harm the Company’s reputation with its customers as well as disrupt the supply of merchandise to the Company. A major failure of the Company’s information systems could harm the business. The Company depends on information systems to manage its operations. The Company’s information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial, and merchandising systems, including credit, inventory distribution and control, sales reporting, accounts payable, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise reporting, and distribution. The Company regularly makes investments to upgrade, enhance, or replace such systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these new systems, or in integrating these systems with the Company’s current systems, or any other disruptions affecting the Company’s information systems, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. The Company has experienced significant variability between its expectations and outlook for sales and profitability and its actual results. Over the past two years the Company has experienced significant differences between its internal expectations and publicly announced outlook for sales and profitability and our actual reported results. This variability has resulted in significant fluctuation and volatility in the market price of its common stock. There can be no assurance that the Company’s current or future internal expectations and outlook for sales, comparable sales, gross margin and profitability will prove to be accurate. The market price of the Company’s common stock is volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or disclosures concerning the Company or its competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates by the Company or by analysts, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Greater level of returns than anticipated could adversely affect the Company’s operations. As part of the Company’s commitment to its customer, it maintains a liberal merchandise return policy that offers an unconditional guarantee of satisfaction by allowing customers to return any product for any reason with no time limit. The Company makes allowances in its consolidated financial statements based on historical return rates but these expectations may be exceeded by actual returns. Any significant increase in returns could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will continue to pay dividends. The payment of dividends and the amount of any dividend is determined by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board considers many factors in making decision on dividends, including its earnings, operations, financial condition, capital and other cash requirements, and general business outlook. In the light of the current macro-economic environment and the Company’s outlook and future results, there can be no assurance that dividends will be paid at the same or lower rate, or at all, in the future. If the Company lowers its dividend rate or does not pay dividends, the price of its common stock must appreciate for shareholders to receive a gain on their investment in the Company. This appreciation may not occur. The foregoing list of risk factors is not intended to be exhaustive. The Company cannot assure that it has identified and discussed all of the significant factors which might affect its operations, results of operations or 21 Table of Contents financial condition. Investors are urged to review this entire Annual Report as well as all of the Company’s other public disclosures and its filings with the SEC, all of which may be found on the Company’s website at thetalbotsinc.com under “Investor Relations”. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 