Item 1A. Risk Factors Careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, in evaluating the Company and our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only risks facing the Company. New risk factors can emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact that any factor or combination of factors may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop merchandise offerings that resonate with our existing customers and help to attract new customers as well as our ability to continue to develop, evolve, promote and protect the value of our brand. Our future success depends on our ability to consistently anticipate, gauge and respond to our customers’ demands and tastes in the design, pricing, style and production of our merchandise. Our merchandise offerings also require long lead times, making it difficult to respond quickly to changes in customer preferences. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in customer preferences and economic conditions could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excessive inventories and more frequent markdowns, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our sales levels. At the same time, as part of our “tradition transformed” brand vision, we are striving to have our product offerings and our brand image and marketing approach increase and expand our customer base while continuing to appeal to our traditional core customer. There is no assurance that we will be successful in increasing our number of customers and customer base or that our product offerings will resonate with our traditional core and expanded customer base. Merchandise misjudgments could also negatively impact our margins, markdown exposure and operating profitability, as well as our image with our customers, and could likely result in diminished brand loyalty. Our future success also depends upon our ability to effectively define, evolve, promote and protect the value of our brand. The Talbots brand name and “tradition transformed” niche is integral to the success of our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of the brand’s design, merchandising and marketing efforts and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. We need to continue to translate market trends into appropriate product offerings while minimizing excess inventory positions and correctly balance the level of our merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We face substantial competitive pressures from other retailers. The specialty apparel retail industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with many other specialty retailers, department stores and catalog and Internet businesses. The competition among apparel retailers for the reduced discretionary consumer spending we have seen over the past two years has been intense, particularly beginning at the end of 2008 with the significant deterioration in the U.S. and global economies. Many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. There is no assurance that we can compete successfully with them in the future. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, significant pricing pressure and significantly increased promotional activity from our competitors. Customers are very selective in their purchasing and may be less connected to any particular brand. Such competition and promotional activity could reduce our 9 Table of Contents sales, increase our level of excess inventory, result in increased markdowns and reduced margins and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations. Increased competition could reduce our ability to find suitable sites for new stores or negotiate acceptable lease terms. Increased store productivity will be largely dependent upon our success in continuing to rationalize our existing store portfolio as well as in increasing customer traffic in our stores. Our ability to increase the productivity of our stores will be largely dependent upon our ability to continue to rationalize our existing store portfolio as well as our ability to generate increased customer traffic in our stores. In March 2011, we announced the acceleration of our store rationalization plan, with an expectation to close approximately 90 to 100 stores and consolidate or downsize approximately 15 to 20 stores over the next two years, with a majority of these actions expected to be completed in fiscal 2011. These actions are expected to reduce gross square footage by approximately 0.5 million square feet. We expect that this reduction in store locations and square footage will help to increase productivity by eliminating overlap in certain markets and allowing management to focus its resources, such as store merchandise inventories and capital expenditures, on a more refined store base. If we are unable to successfully execute on this program to the extent or within the time that we expect or if the improvements in productivity are not at the level that we expect, our margins, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Customer traffic depends upon our ability to successfully promote our brand with our existing customers and potential new customers through our strategic initiatives, providing merchandise that satisfies customer demand in terms of price, quality, fit and in-stock position, predicting fashion trends for our customers and providing an appealing shopping environment and experience. Our comparable store customer traffic decreased 8.0% in fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year. There can be no assurance that our efforts to increase customer traffic in our stores will be successful or at the levels we would expect, which would negatively impact our sales and store productivity and may leave us with excess inventory. We may need to respond to declines in customer traffic by increasing markdowns or initiating or continuing additional promotions to attract customers to our stores, which would adversely impact our margins and operating results. There are significant risks associated with our strategic initiatives. We are in the early stages of executing a number of major strategic initiatives as part of our transformation strategy designed to drive long-term shareholder value and improve our store productivity, sales and results of operations. These strategic initiatives include: • an enhanced, coordinated marketing campaign; • a store re-image initiative, a program which is designed to translate our updated brand image into a renovated storefront and store lay-out; • an information technology enhancement and upgrade; • a segmentation strategy, a system whereby we sort our stores based on customer lifestyle, behavior and climate which seeks to improve store productivity by tailoring our merchandise assortment and store experience to specific segments; and • a plan to rationalize and reduce our store real estate portfolio and square footage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement each of these strategic initiatives or that our transformation strategy will result in improved results of operations. In addition, depending upon our customers’ reaction and acceptance of these initiatives and, as we obtain more information, we may also need to adjust any one or more of these initiatives. These changes could be substantial and could result in significant costs. If we do not successfully execute on these strategic initiatives or if our transformation strategy does not achieve its intended results, we may experience a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. 10 Table of Contents Our 2011 operating plan and strategic plan are based on a number of material assumptions that may not occur. Our fiscal 2011 operating plan and strategic plan are based on a number of significant assumptions which we developed based on our historical information, current and expected economic conditions, expectations of our ability to adequately manage rising raw material and freight costs, and expectations and perceptions of our near-term and longer-term sales, margins, other financial results and cost savings as well as many other assumptions. The current economic environment makes it difficult to project or forecast the results expected to be achieved from all of our strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate and it is possible that actual events, actions taken and results actually achieved will be materially different, and could take longer or be more costly than what we have assumed or forecasted, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our ability to attract and retain a talented and experienced management team is critical to the continued execution of our turnaround strategy. Our ability to continue to execute our turnaround strategy and generate long-term sustainable growth and profitability depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key members of our executive and senior management team. In recent years, we have added a significant number of key senior executives in the areas of brand leadership, creative, merchandising, marketing, finance and sourcing. We are also in the process of filling certain open senior management positions including our Chief Stores Officer and Executive Vice President of Merchandising. There can be no assurance that we will be able at all times to attract and retain individuals with the talent, skill and experience necessary for our senior leadership positions. Our operations and the execution of our strategic plan could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain a skilled management team. Unfavorable economic conditions or the slowing, stalling or reversal of an economic recovery could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. Over the past several years, the U.S. economy weakened significantly as a result of the global economic crisis and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Continued weak or uncertain economic conditions may materially and adversely impact consumer confidence and consumer spending and, as a result, our ability to forecast our continuing operations and to achieve our expected operating results would be adversely affected. Further, our ability to meet debt service requirements, invest in capital expenditures and fulfill the obligations arising in the operation of our business may be impacted. Any further decline in economic conditions may negatively impact our business, continuing operations, financial results, liquidity and financial position. A sustained economic downturn would also likely cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood and scope. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, we may incur lower margins or losses. Our success depends upon our ability to manage proper inventory levels and respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand patterns. If we overestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we will likely need to record inventory markdowns and move the excess inventory to our surplus outlets to be sold at discount or closeout prices which would negatively impact operating results and could impair our brand image. If we underestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages which may result in missed sales opportunities, negative impact on customer loyalty and loss of revenues. The inability to fill customer orders efficiently could lower customer satisfaction and could cause customers to go to an alternate source for the desired products. This lowered level of customer satisfaction and improper inventory levels could adversely affect our operations. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which are impacted by consumer acceptance of our 11 Table of Contents merchandise, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; and (ii) our ability to maintain required levels of borrowing availability and to comply with applicable covenants included in our senior secured revolving credit facility. As a specialty retailer dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we have been adversely affected by the global economic crisis, which has impacted our sales, margins, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to operate profitably and to generate positive cash flows is dependent upon many factors, including improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and our ability to successfully execute our long-term financial plan and strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient at all times to support our Company without additional financing or credit availability. On April 7, 2010, we completed our merger with BPW Acquisition Corp., a special purpose acquisition company (“BPW”), which resulted in net cash proceeds of $333.0 million, before our acquisition costs. We simultaneously executed a senior secured revolving credit facility with a third party lender (the “Credit Facility”), which provides borrowing capacity up to $200.0 million, subject to satisfaction of all borrowing conditions. Our Credit Facility contains a borrowing base that is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. If we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our Credit Facility may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Insufficient borrowing availability under our Credit Facility would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, under the Credit Facility, we are subject to various covenants and requirements. Should we be unable to comply with any of the covenants and requirements in the Credit Facility, we would be unable to borrow under such Credit Facility, and any amounts outstanding would become immediately due and payable unless we were able to secure a waiver or an amendment under the Credit Agreement. Should we be unable to borrow under the Credit Facility we may not have the cash resources for our operations and if outstanding borrowings under the facility become immediately due and payable we may not have the cash resources to repay any such accelerated obligations, and in each case, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with our reliance on an exclusive global merchandise buying agent. In August 2009, we reorganized our global sourcing activities and entered into a long-term buying agency agreement with an affiliate of Li & Fung Limited (“Li & Fung”) pursuant to which Li & Fung was appointed as exclusive global apparel sourcing agent for substantially all of our apparel effective September 2009. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from this arrangement will be realized or realized within the time periods expected. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that upon cessation of this relationship, for any reason, we would be able to successfully transition to an internal or other external sourcing function. Our overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes us vulnerable to certain risks, and any disruption in our supply of merchandise would materially impact us. All of our merchandise is manufactured to our specifications by third party suppliers and intermediary vendors, most of which are located outside the United States. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign buying agents are subject, generally, to the risks of doing business abroad, including: • political, social and economic instability in any of the countries related to our sourcing activities; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where we do business; • imposition of duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruption in international shipping and related pricing impacts; • the receipt of any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; and 12 Table of Contents • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and rely solely on third party manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. A manufacturer’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required product safety and quality standards could cause supply shortages, failure to meet customer expectations and damage to our brand, which could adversely impact our sales and operating results. Further, any significant negative impacts to our suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, there is a risk that our suppliers and vendors could respond to any decrease in or any concern with our liquidity or financial results by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on more stringent payment terms, such as requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices or payment upon delivery, or other assurances or credit support. There can be no assurance that one or more of our suppliers may not slow or cease shipments or require or condition their sale or shipment of merchandise on more stringent payment terms. If these events were to occur and we did not or were not able to adequately respond, it could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise. We cannot predict whether the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories are currently manufactured, or any of the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel and, in that event, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our operations. Our third party manufacturers may fail to comply with our social compliance program requirements. We require our third party manufacturers to comply with our social compliance program standards that cover many areas including child labor, excessive working hours, freedom of association and safe working conditions. We monitor their compliance with these standards using our third party global apparel sourcing agent in conjunction with third party monitoring firms. Although we have an active program to provide training for our independent manufacturers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. Any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our standards or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise or damage our reputation. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured apparel and in the price of materials used to manufacture our footwear and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton, leather and synthetics. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly. Commodity prices for cotton, other fabrics and other raw materials which comprise our products have recently increased significantly. If commodity prices continue to rise and if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers, who may be resistant, then such increases will have an adverse effect on our margins and our results of operations. While we have endeavored to manage the impact of changing commodity prices through commercial terms with our vendors, our ability to mitigate the impact of price changes is impacted by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, and our cost mitigation strategies may not be successful or sufficiently responsive to such commodity price increases, either in the short-term or the long-term. 13 Table of Contents The loss of or infringement upon our trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our “Talbots” trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. Even though we register and take necessary steps to protect our trademark and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration of others or prevent others from infringing on our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Any litigation regarding our trademarks and other proprietary rights could be time-consuming and costly. Further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Because we have not registered our trademarks in all foreign countries in which we currently manufacture merchandise or may manufacture merchandise in the future, our sourcing of merchandise could be limited. If our intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets for potential impairment using a combination of an income approach and a market value approach. If an impairment charge is identified, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value and an impairment charge is recorded as appropriate. Impairment losses are significantly impacted by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. Our estimates of future operating cash flows are based upon our experience, knowledge and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. The carrying value of our assets may also be impacted by such factors as declines in stock price and in market capitalization. Significant declines in our performance, for any reason, could impact the fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future material impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, we monitor the performance and productivity of our store portfolio. When we determine that a store is underperforming or is to be closed, we reassess the recoverability of the store’s long-lived assets, which in some cases can result in an impairment charge. When a store is identified for impairment analysis, we estimate the fair value of the store assets using an income approach, which is based on estimates of future operating cash flows at the store level. These estimates, which include estimates of future net store sales, direct store expenses, and non-cash store adjustments, are based on the experience of management, including historical store operating results, its knowledge and expectations. These estimates can be affected by factors that can be difficult to predict, such as future operating results, customer activity and future economic conditions, and require management to apply judgment. We have announced our intention to rationalize our store portfolio under a program aimed at increasing the productivity of our store square footage. In addition to any other potential or actual future store closings or any negative trends in store performance, any decision to close, consolidate or downsize a store in connection with this program may result in additional future impairments of store assets. The costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. We regularly assess our portfolio of stores for profitability, and we close certain underperforming stores when appropriate under the circumstances. Our strategic plans include closing underperforming stores in order to reduce operating losses and to achieve improved long-term profitability of our store base. Substantially all of our stores are leased, with original lease terms continuing for up to ten years or more, and we have significant annual rent and other amounts due under each lease. While in closing underperforming stores we endeavor to negotiate with landlords the amount of remaining lease obligations, there is no assurance we will reach acceptable negotiated lease settlements. As a result, costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. The estimated costs and charges associated with store closings are also based on management’s assumptions and projections and actual amounts may vary materially from our forecasts and expectations. Additionally, while our goal in closing certain stores is to increase the productivity of our store portfolio, reductions in selling square footage could directly impact our net sales. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute or manage our plan to grow our upscale outlet portfolio. Our plan for our store portfolio includes opening additional upscale outlets, a store concept we introduced in 2009. Our ability to successfully expand our upscale outlet concept depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to identify suitable store locations and to negotiate acceptable lease terms. We face substantial competition from other retailers for such sites. In fiscal 2011, we expect to open approximately 20 new upscale outlets. There can be no assurance that our upscale outlets will open timely, operate successfully or result in greater profitability for the Company. In connection with the sale in 2009 of the J. Jill business we remain contingently responsible for certain material risks and obligations. In July 2009, we completed the sale of the J. Jill business. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from the sale of the J. Jill business will be realized in the time or amounts anticipated. There also can be no assurance that the estimated or anticipated costs, charges and liabilities to settle and complete the transition and exit from the J. Jill business, including both retained obligations and contingent risk for assigned obligations, will not materially differ from or be materially greater than anticipated. In connection with the sale of the J. Jill business to J. Jill Acquisition LLC (“Purchaser”), the Purchaser agreed to acquire and assume from us certain assets and liabilities relating to the J. Jill business. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Purchaser is obligated for liabilities that arise after the closing under assumed contracts, which include leases for 205 J. Jill stores assigned to the Purchaser, of which 203 assigned leases remained outstanding at January 29, 2011, and a sublease through December 2014 of approximately 65,749 square feet of space at the Company’s leased office facility in Quincy, Massachusetts. Certain of our subsidiaries remain contingently liable for obligations and liabilities transferred to the Purchaser, including those related to leases and other obligations transferred to and assumed by the Purchaser, as to which obligations and liabilities we now rely on the Purchaser’s creditworthiness as counterparty. If any material defaults were to occur which the Purchaser does not satisfy or fully indemnify us against and we are required to respond, it would likely have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have accrued a liability for the estimated exposure related to these guarantees, which is subject to future adjustment and any actual exposure could vary materially from estimated amounts. We are subject to credit risk and to potential increased defaults and delinquencies on our customer credit card account portfolio. We extend credit to our customers for merchandise purchases through our proprietary credit card. While we monitor our credit card account portfolio and we believe that our credit card account portfolio continues to be sound, the deteriorated economic environment and current high levels of unemployment may lead to higher customer delinquencies and defaults. There can be no assurance that our credit risk monitoring or our monitoring of our credit card account portfolio will guard against or enable us to adequately and timely respond to any increased risk of or actual increased customer delinquencies or defaults, which could materially and negatively impact the value of our credit card portfolio, our results of operations and liquidity, including our borrowing base under our Credit Facility. Recently enacted financial system reforms could have a negative impact on our profitability. Recent economic conditions, particularly in the financial market, have resulted in increased legislative and regulatory actions. In May 2009, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”) was signed into law, which resulted in new restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment allocation as well as imposed additional disclosure requirements. Certain provisions of this legislation became effective in August 2010 and, as a result, we implemented new procedures to our credit card business practices and systems to ensure compliance with these rules. Finance charge income from our credit operations could be adversely affected as we adjust our practices to current and future regulations related to the Credit CARD Act. 15 Table of Contents There are risks associated with Internet sales. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our website, www.talbots.com. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; diversion of sales from our stores; liability for online content; violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; credit card fraud; the failure of the computer systems that operate our website and their related support systems, including computer viruses; and telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure of our systems, policies or procedures to protect against such risks could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We must protect against security breaches or other disclosures of private data of our customers as well as of our employees and other third parties. As part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain personal information about our customers, our employees and other third parties. The confidentiality of all of our internal private data must at all times be protected against security breaches or other disclosure. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches by third parties or inadvertent data disclosure by us. Any failure to protect the confidential data of our customer or of our employees or other third parties could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our Credit Facility contains provisions which may restrict our operations and proposed financing and strategic transactions. Under the terms of our Credit Facility, we cannot create, assume or suffer to exist any lien securing indebtedness incurred after the closing date of the Facility subject to certain limited exceptions set forth in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains negative covenants prohibiting the Company and its subsidiaries, with certain exceptions, from, among other things, incurring indebtedness and contingent obligations, making investments, intercompany loans and capital contributions, and disposing of property or assets. The Credit Facility also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants relating to the Company and its subsidiaries. The agreement provides for events of default, including failure to repay principal and interest when due and failure to perform or violation of the provisions or covenants of the agreement. Any of the above requirements or other restrictions and limitations under the Credit Facility could reduce our flexibility by limiting, without lender consent, our ability to borrow additional funds or enter into dispositions or collateralization transactions involving any of our assets or other significant transactions. Further, if we default under our Credit Facility, any amounts outstanding could become immediately due and payable prior to the maturity date, in which case, absent replacement financing, we may not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy this debt. Failure to meet market expectations of our financial performance will likely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are market acceptance of our products, customer traffic, product mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold, the timing of merchandise receipts, our cost of merchandise, unanticipated operating costs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the general economic conditions as well as the actions of competitors. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to sales, margins and earnings, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. 16 Table of Contents We depend on a single distribution facility and a principal third party transportation company. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores and fulfillment of customer orders through our direct channel from a single facility in Lakeville, Massachusetts. A principal third party transportation company delivers our merchandise to our stores and our customers. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, epidemics, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores or our customers, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. We depend on information systems to manage our operations and any failure in or our inability to upgrade or maintain these systems could materially and adversely affect our operations. We depend on information systems to manage our operations. Our information systems consist of a full range of retail, catalog, e-commerce, financial and merchandising systems, including credit, inventory distribution and control, sales reporting, accounts payable, procurement, payroll, product design, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise reporting and distribution. We regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems and believe they meet industry standards. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems or any disruptions affecting our information systems could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are required to comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements, including in the area of health care reform. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, such as the new and emerging consumer credit rules, or the enactment of any new legislation may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, financial condition and the market price of our stock. We are continuing to review the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March 2010. As part of our review, we are evaluating the potential impacts of this new law on our business and will accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. There are no assurances that our cost management efforts can accommodate all of the costs associated with compliance. The outcome of litigation and other claims is unpredictable and any rulings not in our favor could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are and may become subject to litigation, claims and administrative proceedings for which we cannot or may not be able to predict or determine the ultimate outcome or quantify the potential financial impact. Because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims and administrative proceedings, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, the loss, expense or other amounts attributable to any such matter. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for a more detailed discussion of certain current litigation and other proceedings. External economic factors could materially impact our Pension Plan. Our future funding obligations with respect to our defined benefit Pension Plan, which was frozen in 2009, will depend upon the future performance of assets set aside for this Pension Plan, interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our Pension Plan primarily holds investments in equity and debt securities. If the market values of these securities decline, our pension expense would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business. Decreases in interest rates or asset returns could also increase our obligations under the Pension Plan. Although no additional benefits have been earned under the Pension Plan since it was frozen, depending on the Pension Plan’s funded status, there will likely be ongoing contribution obligations which could be material. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 