Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market Price of Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Forward-Looking Statements We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made by our management involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. You can identify these statements as those that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or advancements and by forward-looking words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "predict," "intend," "plan," "project," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will result," "could," "may," "might" or any variations of such words or other words with similar meanings. Forward-looking statements address, among other things, our expectations, our growth strategies, including our plans to open new stores, our efforts to increase profit margins and return on invested capital, projections of our future profitability, results of operations, capital expenditures or our financial condition or other "forward-looking" information and includes statements about revenues, earnings, spending, margins, liquidity, store openings and operations, inventory, private label products, our actions, plans or strategies. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results for 2006 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this report or otherwise made by our management: rapidly changing accounting rules and regulations and interpretations of existing rules; the intense competition in the sporting goods industry and actions by our competitors; our ability to manage our growth, open new stores on a timely basis and expand successfully in new and existing markets; the availability of retail store sites on terms acceptable to us; the cost of real estate and other items related to our stores; changes in consumer demand; risks relating to product liability claims and the availability of sufficient insurance coverage relating to those claims; our relationships with our suppliers, distributors or manufacturers and their ability to provide us with sufficient quantities of products; any serious disruption at our distribution or return facility; the seasonality of our business; the potential impact of natural disasters or national and international security concerns on us or the retail environment; risks related to the economic impact or the effect on the U.S. retail environment relating to instability and conflict in the Middle East or elsewhere; risks relating to the regulation of the products we sell, such as firearms; risks associated with relying on foreign sources of production; risks relating to our pursuit of strategic acquisitions; our ability to meet our labor needs; changes in general economic and business conditions and in the specialty retail or sporting goods industry in particular; delays and other obstacles associated with the pending merger; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report in further detail under the caption "Risk Factors" as well as other reports or filings filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; therefore, new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward- looking statement. We do not assume any obligation and do not intend to update any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. Business General We are one of the nation's largest publicly traded full-line sporting goods retailers with sales of approximately $2.5 billion for fiscal 2005 and operating 398 stores in 45 states as of January 28, 2006. On August 4, 2003, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gart Sports Company completed a merger with The Sports Authority, Inc. The merger was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting with Gart Sports Company as the acquirer, and accordingly, our financial information includes The Sports Authority, Inc., or "TSA" since the date of the merger. Financial information for the first 26 weeks of the 52 weeks ended January 31, 2004 and for other periods prior to the merger reflect the former Gart Sports Company on a stand-alone basis. In connection with the merger, The Sports Authority, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gart Sports Company. Gart Sports Company was then renamed The Sports Authority, Inc. and the former The Sports Authority, Inc. was renamed TSA Stores, Inc. ("TSA Stores"). Except as otherwise indicated herein, the words "we," "us," "our," and "Company" refer to The Sports Authority, Inc. (formerly Gart Sports Company), and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, references to "Gart Sports" or to the "Sports Authority" refer to the stores operated under those brand names by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and the "TSA merger" means the Gart Sports Company/The Sports Authority, Inc. merger described above. At the time of the merger, TSA Stores operated 205 Sports Authority stores. In addition, Mega Sports Co., Ltd. owned by TSA Stores and AEON Co., Ltd. operates Sports Authority stores in Japan under a licensing agreement. We currently operate our stores under three principal brand names: Sports Authority, Gart Sports and Sportmart. We completed a major stage in the rebranding of our Oshman's, Sportmart and Gart Sports stores to the Sports Authority nameplate with approximately 75% of our stores under the Sports Authority nameplate as of the end of fiscal 2005. By the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we intend to rebrand the balance of our stores to the Sports Authority name to create one consistent brand which will enable us to recognize additional synergies from the TSA merger. Gart Sports' business was established in 1928. In January 1998, Gart Sports acquired 59 Sportmart stores, doubling its store base and expanding its geographic presence to eight additional states. In June 2001, Gart Sports acquired 58 Oshman's stores, increasing its store base by nearly 50% and expanding its geographic presence to nine additional states. Finally, the TSA merger in August 2003 more than doubled the Company's store base and expanded its presence to 20 additional states. Proposed Going Private Transaction. On January 22, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive agreement ("merger agreement") to be acquired by an investor group led by Green Equity Investors IV, L.P., an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. and including members of Sports Authority's senior management team for $37.25 per share in cash. The board of directors of Sports Authority (excluding J. Douglas Morton and Jonathan D. Sokoloff, each of whom recused himself), on the recommendation of a special committee of disinterested directors, has unanimously approved the merger agreement and recommends that Sports Authority's stockholders adopt the merger agreement. The total transaction value, including assumed debt, is approximately $1.4 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the second fiscal quarter of 2006, and is subject to Sports Authority's stockholder approval, as well as other customary closing conditions, including the receipt of financing and regulatory approvals. In connection with the proposed transaction, a definitive proxy statement of Sports Authority and other materials will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive proxy statement (when available) as well as other filed documents containing information about Sports Authority at http://www.sec.gov, the SEC's free internet site. 2 Our corporate headquarters are located at 1050 West Hampden Avenue, Englewood, Colorado 80110, and our telephone number is (303) 200-5050. Our website is located at www.sportsauthority.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Industry Overview, Competition The sporting goods retail sector is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. This sector is comprised of five principal categories of retailers: large format sporting goods stores, traditional sporting goods stores, specialty sporting goods stores, mass merchandisers and catalog and internet based retailers. In addition, a variety of other retailers sell various types of sporting goods, principally athletic footwear and apparel. Large Format Sporting Goods Stores. Large format full line sporting goods retailers, like us, generally range in size from 20,000 to 100,000 square feet, offer a broad selection of brand name sporting goods and tend to be either anchor stores in strip or enclosed malls or in free-standing locations. Examples of these retailers include our stores, Dick's Sporting Goods, Sport Chalet, GI Joe's, Academy Sports and Outdoors, and Dunham's Sports. Traditional Sporting Goods Stores. Traditional sporting goods retailers tend to have relatively small stores, generally range in size from 5,000 to 20,000 square feet and are frequently located in malls or strip centers. Examples of these retailers are Modell's Sporting Goods, Big 5 Sporting Goods and Hibbett Sporting Goods, as well as local independent sporting goods retailers. These retailers typically carry limited quantities of each item in their assortment and generally offer a more limited selection than full line sporting goods retailers. Specialty Sporting Goods Stores. Specialty sporting goods retailers have both relatively small stores and larger format stores, generally ranging in size from 5,000 to 200,000 square feet and tend to be either anchor stores in strip or enclosed malls or in free-standing locations. Examples of these retailers include Edwin Watts Golf Shops, Golfsmith, Golf Galaxy, Nevada Bob's, Champs, Bass Pro Shops, Gander Mountain, The Finish Line, West Marine, Cabela's and REI. These retailers also include pro shops that often are single store operations. Specialty sporting goods retailers typically carry a wide assortment of one specific product category, such as athletic shoes or golf, tennis, camping or outdoor equipment and generally have higher prices than full line sporting goods retailers. Mass Merchandisers. Mass merchandisers' stores generally range in size from 50,000 to 200,000 square feet, feature sporting goods as part of their overall assortment and are located primarily in strip centers, free-standing locations or shopping malls. Stores in this category include discount retailers such as Wal-Mart, Target and Kmart, warehouse clubs such as Costco, and department stores such as Sears. These retailers usually have limited selection and fewer brand names and typically do not offer the customer service offered by specialty and full line sporting goods retailers. Catalog and Internet Based Retailers. We compete with catalog and internet retailers such as L.L. Bean, Eastbay, Land's End and Cabela's, and other sporting goods websites. We believe that we will continue to face competition from retailers in each of these categories. The principal competitive factors include store location and image, product selection, quality, price, and customer service. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores, the adoption by competitors of innovative store formats and retail sales methods, the entry of new competitors in our markets or the expansion of operations by existing competitors in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, some of our 3 competitors have substantially greater resources than us. We believe that the principal strengths with which we compete are our broad selection and competitive prices combined with a high level of customer service and brand names typically available only in specialty stores and pro shops. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to provide our customers with an extensive selection of high quality, brand name merchandise at competitive prices with a high level of customer service. The key elements of our business strategy are the following: Broad Assortment of Quality, Brand Name Products. We carry an average of approximately 51,000 Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) in each of our stores, including popular brands like Nike, Adidas, BowFlex Coleman, Columbia, Easton, FootJoy, K2, New Balance, Rawlings, Reebok, Rollerblade, Rossignol, Russell, Salomon, Spalding, Speedo, The North Face, Under Armour and Wilson. Our customer service, expert technicians and specialty store presentation enable us to purchase directly from manufacturers the full product lines typically available only in specialty stores and pro shops, such as Under Armour, Cleveland, Taylor Made, and Titleist golf accessories, Schwinn Fitness, Diamondback bikes, Volkl ski equipment and Burton snowboards. Attractive Shopping Environment. We seek to offer an attractive shopping environment that showcases the breadth of our product offerings and reinforces our distinctive brand image. Our brightly-lit stores are designed to project a clean, upscale atmosphere, with a user-friendly layout featuring wide aisles, well-organized merchandise displays and clearly defined departments arranged in a logical and convenient floor plan. Customer Service. Our objective is to provide a high level of customer service generally associated with specialty sporting goods stores and pro shops. We use a commission program to increase the level of customer service in our resort stores and offer additional monetary incentives in technical areas such as bikes, fitness, ski, and golf. We use an independent professional service to monitor customer shopping experiences in our stores. In addition, we offer our customers special services including special order capability, equipment rental, on-site repair centers, ski lift tickets and hunting and fishing licenses. We strive to provide a high level of technical service for products, including skis and snowboards, bikes, exercise equipment and hunting products. Customized Merchandise Mix. We tailor our product mix to market to specific demographic groups and lifestyles. Purchasing decisions are made on a regional, and sometimes a store by store basis, and field personnel work directly with our buyers to achieve the appropriate product mix in each store. Various factors typically influence the product mix in a particular market, like disposable income, professional and amateur sports activities and specific regional and seasonal activities. Promotional Advertising and Marketing. We use a promotional pricing and advertising strategy focused on the creation of "events" to drive traffic and sales in our stores. Each event is based upon either a key shopping period, such as the winter holiday season, Father's Day or Back-to-School, or a specific sales or promotional event, including the annual Sniagrab® ("bargains" spelled backwards) sale, which we believe is the largest pre-season ski and snowboard sale in the United States. Our strategy of clustering stores in major markets enables us to employ an aggressive advertising strategy on a cost-effective basis, utilizing primarily newspaper inserts and, to a lesser degree, radio and television. E-Commerce. Under license and e-commerce agreements with GSI Commerce, Inc. ("GSI"), GSI operates our sporting goods retail website at www.thesportsauthority.com. Under these agreements, GSI owns certain content and technology related to the website, purchases and owns the merchandise sold on the website, and hosts, maintains, fulfills orders and furnishes all other "back-end" operations 4 required to operate the website. GSI Commerce receives all revenue generated from the website and pays us a royalty based on sales from this site. Merchandising We offer our customers an average of approximately 51,000 SKUs of high quality, brand name sporting goods and apparel in each of our stores. New brands and products are continuously introduced and featured in our stores and our advertising. Our merchandise is broadly classified into one of two major categories, hardlines or softlines. Hardlines include items like skis, golf equipment, bicycles, exercise equipment and outdoor gear, including camping, hunting and fishing. Softlines consist primarily of apparel, footwear and outerwear. The following table sets forth our percentage of total net merchandise sales for each major product category for the periods indicated: Fiscal Years 2005 2004 2003 Hardlines 49.3 % 50.7 % 51.4 % Softlines: Apparel 29.4 27.5 26.1 Footwear 21.3 21.8 22.5 Subtotal 50.7 49.3 48.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Winter Equipment and Apparel We believe that our stores offer the best selection of ski and snowboard merchandise in the United States. Our extensive selection consists of winter sports apparel, accessories and equipment for general use and for skiing, snowboarding and snowshoeing at all levels, active families to expert. We are a leader in winter sports retailing offering a wide range of products, including snowboards, skis, boots, bindings, apparel and accessories. We offer products from a wide variety of well-known premium winter sports equipment and apparel suppliers, including The North Face, Columbia, Burton, Volkl, K2, Salomon, Rossignol, Nordica, Ride, Flow, Scott, Swany, Giro, and Oakley. Many of our stores offer winter sports equipment rentals, including skis, snowboards, boots, snowshoes and poles. The rental equipment ranges from entry-level products designed for beginners to advanced products for more accomplished skiers and snowboarders. Other services offered in these stores include youth ski and snowboard lease programs, demo ski programs, custom boot fitting, ski mounting, complete ski and snowboard repair services and the convenience of in-store lift ticket sales to area resorts. Ongoing improvements to our winter sports departments includes the addition of specially designed fixtures for displaying ski and snowboard packages, poles and bindings, enhanced premier brand presence in signing and graphics, and cold weather accessory fixtures that highlight various accessories such as socks, goggles, gloves, mittens, hats and helmets. Apparel and Footwear Our stores carry a full line of athletic footwear, sportswear and apparel designed for a wide variety of activities and performance levels. Footwear is available for diverse activities like basketball, baseball, football, soccer, tennis, golf, aerobics, running, walking, cycling, hiking, cross-training, wrestling and snowshoeing. We are also a major retailer of in-line and ice hockey skates and skateboards. In fiscal 5 2004, we introduced "Footwear Statement Walls" which have been constructed in approximately 265 stores as of January 28, 2006. These footwear statement walls display a full line of footwear and allow us to gain access to premier products from Nike. Our broad assortment of footwear vendors includes Nike, Adidas, Asics, Reebok, New Balance, Timberland, K-Swiss, Saucony, Vans, K2 and Rollerblade. Our wide variety of apparel includes athletic basics and sports-specific collections, as well as swimwear, outdoor apparel and casual apparel. We offer men's, women's and children's styles in all categories. In addition, we carry a broad selection of licensed apparel for professional and college teams that is tailored to each specific market. Our extensive variety of well-known apparel vendors includes Nike, Under Armour, Adidas, The North Face, Burton, Ride, Columbia, Salomon, Champion and Russell. Team Sports and Exercise We offer a broad range of brand name equipment for traditional team sports, including football, baseball, softball, basketball, hockey, volleyball, lacrosse and soccer. We also carry a variety of fitness equipment, including treadmills, stationary bicycles, home gyms, elliptical trainers, weight machines and free weights and equipment for recreational activities including table tennis, foosball, air hockey, darts, volleyball, croquet and horseshoes. In addition, we offer home delivery and in-home set up of exercise equipment and outdoor equipment (such as basketball hoops and trampolines). Our stores carry brands such as, Reebok, Bowflex, Hoist, New Balance, Schwinn, Proform, Gold's Gym, Horizon, Nike Equipment, Easton, Louisville Slugger, Lifetime Products, Rawlings, Wilson, Spalding, and CCM. Golf and Tennis We maintain a wide assortment of golf and tennis apparel and equipment to cater to every type of customer, ranging from the recreational athlete to the most avid sports enthusiast. Most of our stores have a tennis stringing and re-gripping center and several stores offer demo rackets. Many stores feature indoor putting greens and driving cages, enabling customers to try out equipment prior to purchase. We have access to products from a wide variety of well-known golf and racquet sports equipment and apparel suppliers, including Taylor Made, Callaway, Nike Golf, Cleveland, Armour Golf, Titleist, Wilson, Prince and Head. In fiscal 2003, we began implementing a new golf department prototype called "Golf Day" which is a specialty store-within-a-store concept designed to create a more convenient, customer-friendly shopping environment. We have the "Golf Day" concept in over 130 stores as of the end of fiscal 2005, and we intend to implement the concept in approximately 45 additional stores in fiscal 2006. Other Outdoor Sports Cycling. In most of our stores, we offer a selection of bicycles, including mountain bikes, BMX bikes and youth bikes, from manufacturers like Diamondback, Columbia, K2, and Ironhorse. Our stores carry cycling apparel, accessories and components from suppliers like Bell, Canari, Giro and Thule. Most of our stores have their own bicycle repair facility where work can be performed on most makes and models of bicycles, including those purchased from other retailers. Water Sports. We carry a broad selection of products designed for a variety of water sports, including recreational and competitive swimming, water skiing, canoeing, knee boarding, wake boarding, body boarding, surfing and a variety of pool toys. Suppliers of these products include Body Glove, HO, O'Brien and Pelican Boats. Swimsuits and accessories are available from Nike, OP, Speedo, Tyr, and Island Soul. In addition, we carry snorkeling equipment and wet suits. Hunting. In select stores, we carry a variety of hunting equipment and accessories, including eye and ear protection, gun cabinets and safes. These stores provide a selection of sporting firearms, scopes, clothing and hunting licenses. We carry top brand names like Remington, Beretta, Browning, 6 Winchester and Ruger. In most stores we carry a wide selection of paintball markers, air guns and related accessories from brand names such as Brass Eagle, Tippman, Soft Air, Crossman and Daisy. Fishing. Our stores offer a broad range of freshwater and salt water fishing equipment, accessories and fishing licenses. We sell equipment and accessories from widely known fishing equipment and accessory manufacturers including Penn, Shimano, Shakespeare, Berkley, Scientific Angler, Zebco and Daiwa. Camping. Our stores typically carry a wide selection of outdoor products for most types of camping, backpacking, canoeing, kayaking and other outdoor activities. In most markets, we offer products from a broad range of manufacturers, including Coleman, The North Face, Columbia and Jansport. Private Label Program. In 2001, we purchased the "Alpine Design" trademark in an effort to expand our private label program with a recognized and established national brand. Following the TSA merger, we were able to expand our private label offerings to include several private brands that were being sold in Sports Authority stores. As a result of the TSA merger, we also acquired the rights to market certain "Head" merchandise under licenses and we acquired use of the "Golf Day" brand name. We source outdoor, snowsports and lifestyle apparel, footwear, and hardline products, primarily camping and fishing products, under our private label program. This program allows us to provide the customer enhanced value through quality and lower pricing. Control of product advertising and market positioning of products are additional strategic benefits of our private label program. The following private brands were being sold in our stores as of January 28, 2006: Alpine Design®, The Sports Authority®, Estero®, Parkside®, ProV2®, Aspire®, and Body Fit®. Sales of the private label merchandise represented approximately 8% of total net merchandise sales in fiscal 2005. Our Stores We create a dynamic shopping atmosphere that appeals broadly to both the casual sporting goods customer and the sports enthusiast. Based on more than 75 years of experience in the sporting goods retail industry, we have developed a superstore prototype designed to feature the quality and variety of brand name merchandise offered in our stores. The majority of our stores are superstores, which typically range in size from 30,000 to 45,000 square feet. In select markets, we will open superstores ranging from 45,000 to 50,000 square feet. Generally, 80% of store space is dedicated to selling while 20% is used for office and non-retail functions. We have determined that the superstore format provides the best opportunity for growth and is the primary prototype for future store openings. We also have a limited number of smaller format stores, ranging from 15,000 to 25,000 square feet. These stores include mall, freestanding and strip center stores which more closely resemble traditional sporting goods stores and stores in enclosed shopping malls, which carry a selection of merchandise intended to appeal to the mall-oriented shopper, focusing on apparel and footwear. Our prototypical store layout features a racetrack configuration with apparel and specialty brand shops in the middle of the store and the specialty hardlines departments along the outside of the racetrack. The lighting, flooring and color scheme is designed to enhance the presentation of the merchandise and avoid a warehouse-type atmosphere. We capitalize on consumers' awareness of our brands through custom, full-color graphic packages, designed to be compatible with standard fixtures. Since the TSA merger, our store remodeling program has been significantly expanded. Under this comprehensive program, the majority of all Sports Authority stores have received over the past thirty months, or will receive over the next year, some degree of remodeling, ranging from new apparel fixtures and signage to major store refurbishment. The program is designed to improve the look and feel of the stores and to align the merchandising layout and overall visual presentation of stores. As such, the program incorporates a number of initiatives implemented in the last few years, including 7 updated merchandising standards and fixture programs for increased capacity and visibility of hardlines merchandise and implementation of floor layout "models" by format and market, which ensures consistency in merchandising from store to store. Our fixture package utilizes a set of apparel fixtures, accessories, signage and graphics that clearly define the product categories and sub-categories to create a more customer friendly environment. We negotiate with apparel vendors on an ongoing basis to use these same fixtures in developing vendor shop areas. This coordinated effort produces a completely integrated, flexible apparel fixture program. Store Rebranding Efforts Over the past two years, we have rebranded over 80 stores to the Sports Authority name. During fiscal 2006, all remaining Gart Sports, Sportmart and Oshman's stores will be rebranded to the Sports Authority logo. Once the rebranding is completed, we will be in a position to promote our stores in national media thus strengthening the brand identity of the company. Operations, Customer Service and Training Typically, our large format stores have 30 to 60 full and part time associates and technicians, while our smaller stores employ a staff of approximately 20 to 25. Additional seasonal support is hired during Father's Day, Back-to-School, the winter holiday season and the annual Sniagrab® pre-season ski sale. We are committed to providing our customers with a satisfying shopping experience. To achieve this, we constantly strive to provide friendly and knowledgeable sales associates to deliver a level of service generally associated with specialty sporting goods stores and pro shops. We continue to commit significant resources to the training of sales associates through the use of our web based Learning Management System. Various modules, which teach both technical and salesmanship skills covering a broad range of sporting goods categories, have been created for associate use. In addition, we conduct regional vendor clinics that provide specific training for some of the more technical products in our assortments. Incentive plans have been developed that are intended to keep our sales associates focused on serving customers. We also continue to employ outside shopping services to provide us with an independent assessment of both general customer service and cashier customer service levels at each of our stores. In addition to these outside shopping services, we solicit feedback directly from our customers through an interactive voice response system. Our stores are typically open seven days a week adjusted as required by law in individual markets. Additionally, our stores are open on most holidays and for extended hours during key selling periods or special events. Site Selection and Location In new store locations, we consider the demographic and lifestyle characteristics of a market, including, among other factors, levels of disposable income; trade area; local buying patterns; enthusiasm for outdoor recreation; popularity of collegiate and professional sports teams; and regional sports activities. 8 The following table sets forth the location, by state, of our stores, as of January 28, 2006: State Number of Stores California 59 Florida 44 Illinois 32 Texas 30 Colorado 25 New Jersey 17 New York 17 Arizona 15 Georgia 12 Maryland 11 Utah 11 Washington 11 Minnesota 10 Virginia 10 Connecticut 7 Massachusetts 7 Pennsylvania 7 Idaho 6 Michigan 6 Missouri 6 North Carolina 5 New Mexico 4 Nevada 4 Wyoming 4 South Carolina 3 Louisiana 3 Hawaii 3 Ohio 3 Oregon 3 Wisconsin 2 Tennessee 2 Arkansas 2 Kansas 2 Montana 2 New Hampshire 2 Oklahoma 2 Alabama 1 Alaska 1 Delaware 1 Indiana 1 Iowa 1 Maine 1 Mississippi 1 Nebraska 1 Rhode Island 1 Total 398 We plan to open new stores primarily in existing and adjacent markets to further leverage our existing distribution systems, advertising programs and management structure. We opened 13 new stores and relocated four stores in fiscal 2005 and intend to open approximately 12 to 15 new or relocating stores in fiscal 2006. In conjunction with the TSA merger, we identified 29 Sports Authority locations including the TSA Corporate office for closure or relocation. The decision to close the stores was based on substandard performance prior to the merger, or because such stores overlapped with existing Gart Sports, Sportmart or Oshman's stores. As of January 28, 2006, we have closed or relocated 28 of the 29 remaining locations, terminated 17 of the related underlying lease obligations and sold two locations. Management Information Systems In fiscal 2005, we devoted MIS resources to TSA's supply chain initiatives, management reporting and analysis tools, information security, and merchandise planning tools. The supply chain and merchandise planning initiatives expanded tools and processes for managing inventory through the supply chain resulting in better supply cycle times and in-stock positions. The investment in management reporting and analysis tools added capability for more sophisticated monitoring of company performance. TSA is implementing advanced planogram and floor planning capabilities using JDA's retail software. This will integrate with other software systems currently used at TSA and begin operation in fiscal 2006. TSA is subject to compliance requirements from the Payment Card Industry (PCI). TSA is investing in information security processes and tools to safeguard customer information and to meet these PCI standards. 9 We operate sophisticated management information systems that use the JDA retail software system operating on multiple iSeries and open system platforms. We utilize both IBM 4690 and NCR 7453 point-of-sale systems that incorporate scanning, price look-up and store level access to our merchandise information systems. Our fully integrated management information systems track purchasing, sales and inventory transfers down to the SKU level and have allowed us to improve overall inventory management by identifying individual SKU activity and projecting trends and replenishment needs on a timely basis. We utilize a fully integrated merchandise planning and allocation system that facilitates optimal distribution of most products to the stores through the integration of historical sales data and forecasted data at an individual store and item level. A state-of-the-art data warehouse application provides current inventory, sales, margin and payroll information for a variety of users. This tool allows our merchandising staff to analyze product and pricing strategies, our operations staff to optimize its investments in store labor and our executive staff to monitor key business performance indicators on a daily basis. Store operations personnel in every location have online access to e-mail, product signage, standard operating procedures, store level financial performance reports and advertising information through our corporate intranet. Additionally, we utilize radio frequency scanning for receiving and price look-up functions at all of our stores and distribution centers. This technology allows us to streamline our merchandise handling and inventory management, and results in lower overall cost of inventory ownership and improved accuracy in forecasting merchandise needs. Marketing and Advertising Our comprehensive marketing program is designed to promote our extensive selection of brand names, our private label products, and a wide variety of merchandise and services for our customers at competitive prices. An extensive and aggressive advertising newspaper insert program, supplemented with newspaper, television and radio advertising, anchors the core-marketing program. The strategy of the advertising insert program utilizes different page and insert formats to best promote product and pricing. Additional strategic focus on key events, such as Father's Day, Back-To-School and winter holiday season, round out the advertising program. Specific sales and event promotions, such as the annual Sniagrab® Ski and Snowboard Sale, are supplemental to the core program and are also supported by additional media formats, such as television, radio and billboards. Sponsorships with professional sporting associations include the New York Yankees, New York Mets, Chicago Cubs and Boston Red Sox. An in-house staff administers our advertising and marketing program. The focus of the Sports Authority's advertising and promotion has traditionally encouraged consumers to "Get Out and Play"®. We encourage increased participation in, or attendance at, almost any level of sports, whether a serious sports enthusiast or a recreational athlete, as a meaningful part of today's lifestyle. By the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we intend to complete rebranding of all our stores to the Sports Authority name to create one consistent brand and to recognize advertising cost savings. Our goal is to be one of the principal sporting goods advertisers in each of our major markets. We have enhanced our presence and image in all our major markets with increased and consistent placement of a weekly, full-color promotional insert in major newspapers as well as regional newspapers with circulation near our stores. Purchasing and Distribution Our Merchandise Purchasing Department manages all aspects of merchandise procurement and also determines initial pricing, develops product marketing plans and works with the allocation and 10 replenishment groups to establish stock levels and product mix. The buying staff regularly communicates with store operations to monitor shifts in consumer tastes and market trends. Our Planning, Allocation, Replenishment and Merchandise Control Department ("PAR Department") is responsible for merchandise distribution, inventory control, distribution center backstock and the E-3 Replenishment Purchasing and Allocation System. This group acts as the central processing intermediary between the buying staff and our stores. The PAR Department also coordinates the inventory levels necessary for each advertising promotion with the buying staff and advertising department and tracks the effectiveness of certain ads to allow the buying staff and advertising department to determine the relative success of the promotional program. The department's other duties include implementation of price changes, creation of all merchandise purchase orders, and determination of the inventory levels for each store. We purchase merchandise from over 1,000 vendors and have no long-term purchase commitments. During fiscal 2005, Nike, our largest vendor, represented approximately 15.1% of our purchases. No other vendor represented more than 10.0% of our purchases. We generally utilize a "hub and spoke" distribution system in which vendors ship directly to one of our regional distribution centers. We believe that this distribution system has the following advantages compared to direct store delivery (i.e., drop shipping): reduced individual store inventory investment; more timely replenishment of store inventory needs; better use of store floor space; reduced transportation costs and easier returns to vendors. We are improving the productivity by which vendors ship merchandise to our distribution centers by increasing the level of pre-packed merchandise by store (Store Destination Quantities—"SDQ") and "Musical" size runs by store. The SDQ's make the supply chain process more efficient resulting in cost savings. Musicals require vendors to ship product pre-packed, by store and size runs for footwear and apparel which further reduces distribution expenses. We have six regional distribution centers in Colorado, California, Illinois, Texas, Georgia, and New Jersey. In addition to the six regional distribution centers, we periodically lease warehouse space in markets where the regional distribution centers are located. These warehouses are used primarily to store back-stock quantities of large inventory items such as treadmills, weight sets and table-games. Inventory arriving at the distribution centers is allocated directly to the stores or to the warehouses. The E-3 automated reorder system regularly replenishes the stores by allocating merchandise through the distribution centers based on store sales. We operate tractor trailers for delivering merchandise from our Denver distribution center to our Colorado stores, and contract with common carriers to deliver merchandise to our stores outside a 150-mile radius from Denver. Common carriers are also used to deliver merchandise received at our other distribution centers. Associates At January 28, 2006, we employed approximately 14,300 associates, 52% of whom were employed on a full-time basis and 48% of whom were employed on a part-time basis, or less than 32 hours per week. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, total employment fluctuates during the year. We consider our associate relations to be good. None of our associates are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Trademarks and Tradenames We primarily use The Sports Authority®, Gart Sports®, Sportmart®, Sniagrab®, Get Out And Play®, Alpine Design®, ProV2®, Estero®, Parkside®, Aspire®, and Body Fit® trademarks and trade 11 names, which have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Other service marks, trademarks and trade names referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners. We also own and use numerous other trademarks and servicemarks which involve the manufacturing of soft goods, advertising slogans, promotional event names and store names used in our business. Many of these names are registered, or are the subject of pending applications, with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and other applicable offices around the world. Marks registered in the United States in the "Authority" family include "Authority," "Sports Authority," "The Ski Authority," "Golf Authority," "Tennis Authority" and "Team Sports Authority," among others. Marks used in the "Play" family include "Get Out and Play" and "Come In and Play," among others. We vigorously protect our trademarks, service marks and trade names from infringement throughout the world by strategic registration and enforcement efforts. Government Regulation We must comply with federal, state and local regulations, including the federal Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, which require us, as a federal firearms licensee, to perform a pre-sale background check of purchasers of firearms. This background check is performed using either the FBI-managed National Instant Criminal Background Check System ("NICS"), or a state government-managed system that relies on NICS and any additional information collected by the state. These background check systems either confirm that a sale can be made, deny the sale, or require that the sale be delayed for further review. We are also provided with a transaction number for the proposed sale, which we are required to record on Form 4473 of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and retain a copy for our records for 20 years for auditing purposes for each approved, denied or delayed sale. We complete the sale after all of the approval procedures are complete. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of products that we may import into the U.S. and other countries or impact the cost of such products. To date, quotas in the operation of our business have not restricted us, and customs duties have not comprised a material portion of the total cost of our products. Executive Officers See "Executive Officers" in Item 10 for information concerning our executive officers. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the proposed merger is pending Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers, partners and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated, and could cause suppliers, customers and others that deal with us to defer purchases or other decisions concerning us, or seek to change existing business relationships with us. Employee retention may be particularly challenging while the merger is pending, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the post-merger entity. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from taking specified actions without the buyer's approval. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. 12 Failure to complete the proposed merger could negatively impact stock price, future business and financial results Although our board of directors will, subject to fiduciary exceptions, recommend that our stockholders approve and adopt the merger agreement, there is no assurance that the merger agreement and the merger will be approved, and there is no assurance that the other conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: •under certain circumstances, if the merger is not completed, we may be required to pay the buyer a termination fee of $30 million or reimburse the buyer for its out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the merger, up to $5 million, subject to possible increase (although any termination fee payable would be net of reimbursed expenses); •the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the stock market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common stock; •certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed; •there may be substantial disruption to our business and a distraction of its management and employees from day-to-day operations, because matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; •our business could be adversely affected if it is unable to retain key employees or attract replacements; and •we would continue to face the risks that we currently face as an independent company. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The sporting goods retail market is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: •large format full-line sporting goods retailers; •traditional sporting goods stores and chains; •specialty sporting goods retailers and pro shops; •mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, discount stores and department stores; and •catalog and internet-based sporting goods retailers. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores, the adoption by competitors of innovative store formats, pricing strategies and retail sale methods, the entry of new competitors in our markets or the expansion of operations by existing competitors in our markets could cause us to lose market share, limit our growth and reduce our profitability. If we are unable to predict or react to changes in consumer demand, our sales may decline and we may be required to take significant markdowns in inventory. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding sporting goods. Our products must appeal to a broad 13 range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Additionally, we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. If we misjudge the market for our merchandise, we may lose sales or we may overstock unpopular products, which may require us to take significant inventory markdowns. In either case, our revenues and profit margins could significantly decline and our business and financial results may suffer. We sell products that expose us to a greater risk of product liability and infringement claims, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of sporting goods equipment that we sell or rent. Among other things, we sell long guns, handguns and air pistols, which are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. We may incur losses relating to these claims or the defense of these claims. We may also incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on firearm purchasers as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of firearms sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from firearm manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of firearms. In addition, in the future there may be increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, of the sale of firearms in our current markets as well as future markets in which we may operate. Commencement of these lawsuits against us or the establishment of new regulations could reduce our sales and decrease our profitability. There is a risk that claims or liabilities with respect to lawsuits will exceed our insurance coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to purchase adequate liability insurance in the future. Although we have entered into product and infringement liability indemnity agreements with many of our vendors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payments sufficient to offset product liability losses. Furthermore, we are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our suppliers and distributors do not provide us with sufficient quantities of products, or if conditions in any of the foreign countries where they source merchandise adversely change, we may not be able to offer competitively priced merchandise or the quantities or assortment that our customers demand. We purchase merchandise from over 1,000 vendors. In fiscal 2005, purchases from Nike represented approximately 15.1% of our total purchases. Although purchases from no other vendor represented more than 10.0% of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. We do not have long-term agreements with our suppliers and cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our relationships with them. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain the merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing discounts, rebates and cooperative advertising allowances. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profits. We believe that a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, we believe much of our private label merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to the risks of changes in import duties, quotas, loss of "most favored nation" or MFN status with the United States for a particular foreign country, work stoppages, delays in shipment, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries 14 in which the suppliers of our vendors are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we purchase products directly or indirectly utilize labor and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the United States, we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. To date, we have not experienced any difficulties of this nature. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors or we obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Countries from which our vendors obtain these new products may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products, and the United States may impose new duties, quotas and other restrictions on imported products. The United States Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. The cost of such products may increase for us if applicable duties are raised, or import quotas with respect to such products are imposed or made more restrictive. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our common stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: •competition; •our new store openings or in existing markets and remodeling; •general regional and national economic conditions; •actions taken by our competitors; •consumer trends and preferences; •changes in the other tenants in the shopping centers in which we are located; •new product introductions and changes in our product mix; •timing and effectiveness of promotional events; •lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment; and •weather. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Our business is seasonal, and our annual results are highly dependent on the success of our holiday selling season. Our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating profitability historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of fitness equipment, apparel and accessories, and cold weather sporting goods and 15 apparel. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, poor snowfall in ski areas near our markets, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. A downturn in the economy could significantly reduce our revenues. Sales of sporting goods historically depend on consumers' discretionary spending. An economic downturn in any of our major markets, or in general, could reduce consumer spending on discretionary items that could adversely impact our revenues and cause our business and financial results to suffer. General economic conditions and other factors that affect discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by: •an economic recession; •unemployment trends; •interest rates and inflation; •consumer and commercial credit availability; •consumer debt levels; •geopolitical uncertainty; •tax rates and tax policy; •natural disasters; and •other factors that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. We have a significant amount of debt that could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Our existing credit facility provides for loans of up to $640 million. As of January 28, 2006, we had approximately $236.1 million of long-term debt outstanding. This debt could have significant adverse effects on our business. This debt: •makes it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; •requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of our debt and the interest on our debt; •limits our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; and •makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt and/or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms could be obtained or that we will be able to operate at a profit. Additionally, our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to grow our business. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our labor needs. Many of our employees are in entry-level or part-time positions that historically have high rates of turnover. We may be unable to satisfy our labor needs and control our costs due to external factors 16 such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and wage inflation. If general economic conditions improve, it may be more difficult to attract and retain quality employees. As a result, our business may suffer. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Additionally, events such as those referred to above could cause or contribute to a general decline in consumer spending and equity valuations, which in turn could reduce the market value of your investment in us. Anti-takeover provisions may prevent stockholders from realizing a premium return. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter unfriendly offers or other efforts to obtain control over us. These anti-takeover provisions, among other things: •allow our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval, and establish the rights, including voting rights, preferences and limitations of the preferred stock; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to the board of directors or for stockholder proxy proposals; •permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies through a majority vote of directors, even if less than a quorum; and •require that mergers and other business combinations with certain interested stockholders, including any holder of 10% or more of our common stock, be approved by a supermajority of the holders of our common stock that are not interested in the transaction. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. These measures could make us less attractive to a potential acquirer and deprive stockholders of the opportunity to sell their common stock at a premium price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, particularly if our quarterly results fall below the expectations of securities analysts. Our sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. These fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market price of our common stock, particularly if our quarterly results fall below the expectations of securities analysts. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our quarterly net sales and operating results, including: •changes in consumer demand for the products that we offer in our stores; •lockouts or strikes involving professional sports teams; •adverse weather conditions; •pre-opening costs associated with new stores; •costs related to the closures of existing stores; 17 •litigation; •changes in merchandise mix; •pricing and promotional events sponsored by our competitors; and •general economic conditions. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may remain volatile in the future. The value of our common stock may decline as a result of this volatility. The market price of our common stock has been in the past, and may in the future be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: •fluctuations in quarterly operating results; •announcements, by us or our competitors, of actual or expected financial results, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts; •conditions and trends in the sporting goods industry; and •general conditions in the economy or the financial markets. Additionally, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. Such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. We are currently defending four securities class actions related to the proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners. The loss of key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on the continued services of our senior management, particularly John Douglas Morton, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer. Any loss or interruption of the services of our senior management could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our key initiatives because we may not be able to find appropriate replacements for our senior management should the need arise. If we were to lose any key senior management, our business could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our information systems to operate our business, and if our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on the successful integration and operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage effectively our sales, warehousing, distribution, merchandise planning and replenishment and to optimize our overall inventory levels. Most of our information systems are centrally located at our headquarters, with offsite backup at other locations. We continue to focus on enhancements to the inventory management systems and store point-of-sale systems. Systems enhancement issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive. Their failure to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business, lead to unanticipated costs, adversely affect our revenues and cause our business and financial results to suffer. 18 A disruption in the operation of our distribution centers would affect our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores, which could impact adversely our revenues and harm our business and financial results. Most of our merchandise is shipped by our vendors to a limited number of distribution centers. Our distribution centers receive and allocate merchandise to our stores. Events such as fire or other catastrophic events, any malfunction or disruption of our centralized information systems or shipping problems may result in delays or disruptions in the timely distribution of merchandise to our stores, which could adversely impact our revenues and our business and financial results. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase the number of our retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. We may not have stores or sites available to us for purchase or lease, or available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business, and their financial results, into ours may adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 