ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our earnings are derived from a relatively small and concentrated number of properties. Our earnings are derived from a relatively small number of properties. Our Properties consist of only the MOB Properties representing only approximately 742,000 rentable square feet. All of these properties are located in Southern California. Moreover, the MOBs in the “Golden Triangle” area of Beverly Hills, California produce approximately 35% of our net operating income. Our operating results may be significantly impacted by the performance of one or a group of our properties and by factors affecting generally the health-care industry, the Southern California economy or the “Golden Triangle” area. Our business could be particularly adversely affected, for example, by a catastrophic incident such as a material terrorist attack or earthquake centered in the “Golden Triangle” area. Failure of our tenants to comply with health-care regulations could affect their operations and their ability to make lease payments to us. The health-care industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local law and is directly affected by state and local licensure, fines, and loss of certification required to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. Failure of our tenants to comply with governing laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect the operation of our properties and a tenant’s capacity to make lease payments to us. Delays in reimbursement by healthcare payors to our tenants could adversely impact their ability to pay rent. The healthcare industry is facing various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on health-care providers to control costs, and the vertical and horizontal consolidation of healthcare providers. Healthcare reform has been the subject of much governmental review in recent periods. It is currently unclear the direction or extent of such reform. We believe that government and private efforts to contain and reduce healthcare costs will continue. These trends are likely to lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. We cannot predict whether governmental reforms will be adopted. If adopted such reforms may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have greater operating costs than other real estate operators due to our healthcare focus. The costs of operating a medical office building are typically higher than those of a conventional office or retail space. For example, medical office tenants typically have greater demands for electricity than conventional office tenants, and special elevators and waste disposal facilities are often required. In our leases that are not triple net, we may have to bear all of these additional costs. In addition, even in our triple net leases, we may not, in the future, be able to pass through all of these costs to our tenants if it becomes economically prohibitive to do so because it would result in the loss of our tenants. As a natural result of the nature of our tenant’s clientele, we may be more exposed to slip and fall type liability and claims than operators of conventional office space, and our insurance premiums may, accordingly, be higher than the operators of such conventional office facilities. Again, while most of our leases are currently triple net leases, we may not in the future be able to pass through all of these costs to our tenants as these triple net leases turnover. Properties we acquire or develop may underperform forecasted results. We may continue to pursue acquisitions of additional MOB properties and to selectively develop new properties. Acquisitions and development entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the cost of improvements necessary to develop and acquire properties will prove inaccurate, in addition to the general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. 5 Table of Contents Properties that we develop or acquire and renovate substantially do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make objective pricing decisions in acquiring these properties. The purchase prices of these properties are based upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of such properties, subjecting us to risks that such properties may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. We may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions. We anticipate that future acquisitions and development will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as mortgage loans, borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to grow and diversify our investment portfolio could be curtailed. We depend on debt financing which could result in foreclosure on our properties if we are unable to make required payments. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that existing indebtedness on the properties cannot be refinanced or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness and the risk that necessary capital expenditures for such purposes as renovations and reletting space cannot be financed on favorable terms, if at all. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the property could be lost through foreclosure or transfer to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. We are subject to the normal risks associated with leasing property, including the risk that upon the expiration of leases for space located in the properties, the leases may not be renewed, the space may not be relet or the terms of renewal or leasing (including any cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable promptly to relet or renew leases for a significant portion of our space or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our earnings and ability to make expected distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected. As our buildings are specially set up for medical office purposes, and as medical professionals typically prefer to be located in buildings with a high percentage of other medical professional tenants, we are more limited in our selection of potential tenants than general commercial or office buildings. Since our leases are typically short term (our average remaining lease term as of December 31, 2005 was only 2.8 years, excluding month-to-month tenants), increasing vacancy factors and declining rental rates can affect our cash flow more quickly than businesses that rely on longer term leases. Closure of nearby hospitals could affect the desirability of our properties. Our MOBs are often in close proximity to one or more hospitals. Fourteen of our MOBs are located less than one-half mile from a hospital. The relocation or closure of a hospital could make our nearby Properties (particularly those outside of the Beverly Hills area) less desirable to doctors affiliated with the hospital and affect our ability to collect rent due under existing leases, renew leases and attract new tenants. We face competition from other health-care investors, which may prevent us from taking advantage of investment opportunities. We compete with other REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers and other investors, including real estate developers, professional medical partnerships, financial institutions and institutional investors, many of which have greater financial resources than us, in the acquisition and leasing of healthcare facilities. Among other things, we must secure continued access to capital to fund new healthcare property acquisitions, and identify and successfully pursue opportunities for investment in healthcare properties. Given the competition in the MOB marketplace, there can be no assurance that suitable investments will be identified or that additional investments can be consummated on terms favorable to us. 6 Table of Contents We face potential liability relating to environmental matters. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in its property. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to borrow using the real estate as collateral and may subject the owner to material remediation costs. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially and adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and could exceed the value of our properties. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate these substances, including medical waste generated by physicians or other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants’ or our ability use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral, which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. Liability for, or other claims against us in connection with, environmental matters may exist of which we are unaware. As part of the normal practice of doctors, medical waste is generated. Our leases require the individual tenants to make arrangements for the disposal of medical waste and require all tenants to provide proof that they have contracted with a third party service to remove it from the premises each night. The handling and disposal of this waste is the responsibility of the tenants; however, we remain responsible as the owner of the property. There can be no assurances that all such medical waste will be properly handled and disposed of or that we will not incur costs in connection with improper disposal of medical waste by our tenants. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in their interpretations, could create liabilities where none exist today. We are exposed to risks related to our historic skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities assets and business. There is typically, in our view, a greater litigation risk in the ownership and leasing of skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”) and assisted living facilities (“ALFs”) than in the ownership and leasing of MOB assets. While we have spun off our SNF and ALF business, and while we operated our SNF and ALF business through special purpose limited liability entities, the risk remains that we could be named in lawsuits relating to alleged shortfalls in the operating quality of SNF and ALF tenants occurring prior to the date of the spin off of the SNF and ALF business and that the plaintiffs in these lawsuits could seek to pierce the corporate veil to reach our MOB assets. So called “Elder Abuse” is an increasingly popular tort for plaintiff’s lawyers, and litigation in this area appears to be significantly on the rise. Also, for approximately four years, one of our subsidiaries was the holder of the operating license for a group of SNFs located in Massachusetts, and was involved in the operation of those facilities while working to identify a new tenant for these facilities. Our financial performance will be affected by risks associated with the real estate industry. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators or real property, some of which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our economic performance and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders include: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, medical office space, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, physician practice group clinics, ambulatory surgery centers, specialty hospitals and treatment centers and senior care facilities; 7 Table of Contents • reduced attractiveness of our properties to physicians and other types of tenants; • competition from other medical office buildings, outpatient treatment facilities, physician practice group clinics, ambulatory surgery centers, specialty hospitals, treatment centers and senior care facilities; • inability to collect rent from tenants; • increased operating costs, including real estate taxes, insurance premiums and utilities; • costs of complying with changes in government regulations; and • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If any of these events were to happen, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993, or ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by persons with disabilities. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA with respect to any of our properties could result in the imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. If we were required to make substantial modifications at our properties to comply with the ADA or governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Virtually all of our properties are “special purpose” properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Thus, if the operation of any of our properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that our lessee becomes unable to meet its obligations on the lease, the liquidation value of the property may be substantially less, particularly relative to the amount owing on any related mortgage loan, than would be the case if the property were readily adaptable to other uses. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should such events occur, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Since the passage of Proposition 13 in 1978, property in California typically is only subject to reassessment if sold and minimal annual increases. However, no assurances can be given, as state budgets become increasing strained, whether this will continue to be the case in California. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the properties that they occupy. As the owner of the properties, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. 8 Table of Contents Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Although we carry comprehensive liability and casualty insurance with respect to our properties, there can be no assurance that policies maintained by us will be adequate in the event of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may also make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to rebuild a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected property. In addition, some of our policies, like those covering losses due to earthquakes, floods and windstorms, are subject to limitations involving deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. All of our MOBs are located in Southern California, an area especially prone to earthquakes. Generally, we do not carry insurance for uninsured losses, such as loss from riots, war or events of force majeure. Some risks simply are not currently insurable, such as risk of loss due to nuclear, chemical or biological terrorist attack. Also, our insurance policies themselves are lengthy and highly technical, and there may be gaps in our coverage that we do not currently fully appreciate. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from that property. In addition, if the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the property was irreparably damaged. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties covered by our blanket policy, the remaining insurance under our policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policy. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under their leases, tenants are generally required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises due to activities conducted by them on the properties. There are, however, generally speaking exceptions for claims arising from the gross negligence or intentional misconduct by us. Additionally, tenants are generally required, with the exception of entities that are self-insured, to obtain and keep in force during the term of the lease at their own expense, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings at a minimum level. In the event that we experience an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the insurance policies on our properties, we may suffer significant losses of capital that we have invested in those properties or lost revenue in the form of unpaid lease payments from tenants. We are subject to the risks associated with the contracting out of substantially all of the day-to-day management of our business. Since the spin-off of G&L Realty Corp., LLC, our Company has not retained any employees dedicated solely to the management of its business. G&L Realty Corp., LLC, in addition to providing day-to-day management for our Company, also manages its own assets and businesses and those of G&L Senior Care Properties, LLC and certain of its affiliates. Furthermore, G&L Realty Corp., LLC is wholly owned by Daniel Gottlieb, Steven Lebowitz, Richard Gottlieb and Andrew Lebowitz, who also have, directly or indirectly, financial interests in G&L Senior Care Properties, LLC and certain of its affiliates. Accordingly, this management and ownership structure could divert the attention of the individuals responsible for day-to-day management. In such event, our business could be harmed. Also, Mr. S. Craig Tompkins, a member of the Board of Directors of our Company, is also a member of the three member management committees of G&L Realty Corp., LLC and G&L Senior Care Properties, LLC with Messrs. Daniel Gottlieb and Steven Lebowitz. Together, Messrs. Tompkins, Daniel Gottlieb and Steven Lebowitz constitute a majority of our Board of Directors. 9 Table of Contents Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz control all matters that are subject to stockholder approval as a result of their ownership of 100% of our common stock. As a result of their 100% ownership of our outstanding common stock, Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz have interests that may differ from those of the holders of our preferred stock and may vote as stockholders in ways that may not be consistent with the interests of the holders of our preferred stock. Their ownership interests may delay, prevent or deter a change of control of our Company or could deprive holders of our preferred stock of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as a part of a sale of our Company. The directors of our Company serve at the pleasure of Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz and can be removed at any time, with or without cause. Moreover, Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz are also the owners of limited partnership units, representing approximately 3.5% of the partnership interests, in the Operating Partnership, through which we own all of our Properties, and their interests in the distributions from the operating partnership are senior to dividend payments to the holders of our preferred stock. Accordingly, they may influence the amount and timing of distributions from the Operating Partnership in ways that may adversely affect the holders of our preferred stock. There may be potential conflicts between our two common stockholders. Although Mr. Daniel Gottlieb holds 54% of our outstanding common stock, compared to Mr. Steven Lebowitz’s 46%, Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz operate our company together and consult extensively with each other before significant decisions are made. Specifically, Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz have agreed that any extraordinary transactions, such as a sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, would require the unanimous approval of the common stockholders. This may slow the decision-making process, and a disagreement between the two individuals could prevent key strategic decisions from being made in a timely manner. In the event Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz are unable to continue to work well together in providing cohesive leadership, our business could be harmed. Our common stockholders may dispose of their shares of common stock at any time and in a manner that may materially adversely affect our Company. Other than their agreement regarding extraordinary transactions discussed immediately above, Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz are not party to any agreement governing the disposition of their common stock and are free, subject to applicable state and federal restrictions on the sale of securities and to the ownership limitations set forth our articles of incorporation, to sell or otherwise dispose of their respective interests in our Company in such manner and to such persons as they may, in their sole and absolute discretion, determine. Consequently, we may be subject to a greater risk of a change of control transaction than a company whose common shares were more broadly held. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of certain agreements because of conflicts of interest with our two common stockholders. Our Company is the holder of a $4 million promissory note from G&L Senior Care Properties, LLC, a company approximately 98.25% owned and controlled by Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz. G&L Realty Corp., LLC is wholly owned by Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz and certain members of their family and responsible for the day-to-day management of our Company through a long term management agreement. While we have endeavored to negotiate these transactions at arms length, in each case these transactions are with entities controlled and principally owned by our controlling stockholders. Accordingly, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz and/or because of their practical power to remove directors and appoint their replacements. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of the G&L Realty Corp., LLC management team. In particular, Messrs. Daniel Gottlieb and Steven Lebowitz, our founders, Co-Chairmen and Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively, are critical to the overall management of our company as well as our development and strategic direction. Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz have worked together as partners for the past 28 years, and are principally responsible for the development of our Company as it exists today. Messrs. Daniel Gottlieb and Steven Lebowitz are each key executives, and the loss of either or both of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. While G&L Realty Corp., LLC has employment contracts 10 Table of Contents with each of these executives, these contracts may be easily terminated, as can the management agreement between G&L Realty Corp., LLC and our Company, and will be of limited benefit to the holders of the Company’s preferred stock, since they will have no control over whether Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz, as the owners of all of our common stock, should chose to amend, modify, terminate or extend such agreements. Although neither Mr. Gottlieb or Mr. Lebowitz has indicated he intends to retire, Mr. Gottlieb is 65 years old and Mr. Lebowitz is 65 years old. Furthermore, given their interests in G&L Senior Care Properties, LLC, they have not been available to our Company on a full time basis since the spin-off of that company in 2004. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that either or both of them will continue to work for us on even a part-time basis in the future. Other than Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz, we operate with a limited and relatively inexperienced executive management staff. After Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz, our next most senior executive officer is Mr. David Hamer, our vice president, chief accounting officer and secretary, who is 32 years old and has been with us since 1998. In 2002, we employed Mr. Richard J. Gottlieb, who is 36 years old and the son of Mr. Daniel M. Gottlieb, and, in 2003, we employed Mr. Andrew Lebowitz who is 29 years old and the son of Mr. Steven D. Lebowitz. These individuals are now employees of G&L Realty Corp., LLC, and are only available to us through that company. While we believe that we could find replacements for our key personnel, the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our operations in the short-term. We do not have a formal succession plan. Mr. Daniel Gottlieb, our Chief Executive Officer, is 65 years old, and Mr. Steven Lebowitz, our President and Chief Financial Officer, is 65 years old. We do not have a formal succession plan and cannot assure you that we will establish one in a timely fashion or at all. We may authorize and issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Under our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue additional series of preferred stock ranking in parity with the Company’s preferred stock and establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the consent of holders of our preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority, with the approval of two-thirds of the outstanding preferred stock, to issue additional series of preferred stock ranking senior to the preferred stock. The ability of holders of our preferred stock to receive their liquidation preference may be adversely affected by future issuances of preferred stock not expressly subordinated to our preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may change our investment and financing policies without stockholder approval. Our board of directors, without the approval of our stockholders, may alter our investment strategies and policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, borrowing and other activities, including our growth, debt-to-capital ratio, distributions, REIT status and operations. Investment and policy changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to holders of our preferred stock. The composition of our Board of Directors may be altered at any time by Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz. The composition of the board of directors can be changed at any time by Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz, as the owners of all of our outstanding common stock. Our articles of incorporation contain ownership limitations that may prevent transactions that may be beneficial to the Company. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT status, our articles of incorporation restrict direct or constructive ownership of more than 8% of the capital stock (in value or in number) by any single individual stockholder (including certain entities) other than Messrs. Gottlieb and Lebowitz. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause common stock or preferred stock owned, directly or constructively, by a group of related individuals or entities to be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that may be beneficial to our stockholders. 11 Table of Contents Our debt level reduces the cash available for distribution. We currently use and intend to continue to use debt financing for new investments. Debt financing may include our credit facility or permanent secured or unsecured long-term debt. Our use of debt financing presents the risk to holders of our preferred stock that payments of principal and interest on borrowings will leave us with insufficient cash resources to pay dividends required by the terms of our preferred stock or distributions in respect of capital stock required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We intend to continue to operate as a REIT under the Code. Although our management believes that we are organized and are able to operate in such a manner, no assurance can be given that we will continue to qualify as a REIT or that the Internal Revenue Service will not take issue with our view that we so qualify. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may impact our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. We are not aware of any proposal to amend the tax laws that would significantly and adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. This treatment would significantly reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability to us for the year or years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 