Item 1A. Risk Factors Careful consideration should be given to the risk factors discussed below and the other information set forth in this Report, any of which could materially affect our business, operations, financial position, liquidity and future results. The risks described in this Report are important to an understanding of the statements made in this Report, in our other filings with the SEC, and in any other discussion of our business. These risk factors, which contain forward-looking information, should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 15 of this Report. The risks described in this Report are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only risks facing the Company. 10 Table of Contents The uncertain economic conditions could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. economy has weakened significantly as a result of the recent global economic crisis and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These economic conditions materially and adversely impact consumer confidence and consumer spending; our ability to forecast our continuing operations and operating results; our ability to execute and achieve our strategic, operational, restructuring and cost saving initiatives; our vendors and suppliers and the risk of any disruption in the supply of merchandise to us; our cash flows and other sources of funding of our continuing operations, strategic initiatives, restructure activities, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and the obligations arising in the operation of our business; and our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing at the times and in the amounts as may be needed. We are unable to predict the likely duration or ultimate severity of the U.S. economic conditions, and if the current and economic conditions further deteriorate, our business, continuing operations, financial results, liquidity and financial position could be increasingly materially and adversely impacted. Further, a sustained economic downturn would likely cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood and scope. Our ability to continue to have the liquidity necessary through cash flows from operations combined with our new senior secured revolving credit facility may not be sufficient to support operations. On April 7, 2010, we completed our merger with BPW Acquisition Corp., a special purpose acquisition corporation (“BPW”), which resulted in net cash proceeds of $333.1 million before our acquisition costs. We simultaneously closed a senior secured revolving credit facility with a third-party lender (the “Credit Facility”), which provides borrowing capacity up to $200.0 million, subject to satisfaction of all borrowing conditions. As a specialty retailer dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we have been adversely affected by recent economic conditions, which have impacted sales, margins, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. While the funding received through the merger with BPW and related Credit Facility eliminated approaching debt maturities and assisted in our recapitalization, it does not provide assurance that the current economic environment will stabilize or improve in the near future or that we will generate sufficient positive cash flows from operations. Our ability to operate profitably and to generate positive cash flows is dependent upon many factors, including stabilization or improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and our ability to successfully execute our long-term financial plan and strategic initiatives. In the event cash flows are not sufficient to support operations, it is uncertain whether the Credit Facility will be able to provide levels of cash in the amounts or at the time needed. As such, the merger and refinancing does not provide assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to support our Company without additional financing or credit availability. There can be no assurance that alternatives, if needed, would be successfully implemented, in which case it could materially adversely affect our Company, its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our Credit Facility contains a borrowing base that is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. If we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our Credit Facility may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Insufficient borrowing availability under our Credit Facility would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, under the Credit Facility, we are subject to various covenants and requirements. Should we be unable to comply with any of the covenants and requirements in the Credit Facility, we would be unable to borrow under such Credit Facility, and any amounts outstanding would become immediately due and payable unless we were able to secure a waiver or an amendment under the Credit Agreement. Should we be unable to borrow under the Credit Facility we may likely not have the cash resources for our operations and if outstanding borrowings under the facility become immediately due and payable we likely would not have the cash resources to repay any such accelerated obligations, and in each case, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our merchandise, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary 11 Table of Contents spending; and (ii) our ability to maintain required levels of borrowing availability and to comply with applicable covenants included in our Credit Facility. We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of our long-term strategic initiatives and that we will continue to improve our operating results and return to long-term profitability. Our ability to successfully implement our strategic initiatives and continue to improve our operating results depends upon a significant number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • sufficiency at all times of available cash flows and other internal and external cash resources to satisfy all future operating needs and all other cash requirements; • the continuation or any further worsening of economic conditions; • adequate and uninterrupted supply of merchandise and continuation of merchandise purchases on open account purchase terms from merchandise vendors at expected levels and at acceptable accounts payable terms; • achieving our 2010 financial plan for operating results, working capital, liquidity and cash flows; • whether our strategic initiatives and cost saving actions will continue to improve our results, operating efficiencies and cash flows; • effective inventory management and maintaining adequate levels of customer-appropriate inventory; • our ability to adequately respond to greater competitive pressures; • our ability to adequately respond to changing fashion trends and consumers’ response to our merchandise; and • our ability to adjust our operating plans and cash expenditures in response to changing conditions. We cannot provide assurance that any of these or other factors, plans and initiatives will be resolved or occur in our favor and, if not, our business, financial results, liquidity, sales and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop merchandise offerings that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers as well as our ability to continue to develop, evolve and promote our brand. Our future success depends on our ability to consistently anticipate, gauge and respond to our customers’ demands and tastes in the design, pricing, style and production of our merchandise. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in customer preferences and economic conditions could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excessive inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our sales levels. Merchandise misjudgments could also negatively impact our margins and markdown exposure, as well as our image with our customers, and result in diminished brand loyalty. Our future success also depends upon our ability to effectively define, evolve and promote our brand. The Talbots brand name and “tradition transformed” niche is integral to the success of our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of the brand’s design, merchandising and marketing efforts, and the ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. We need to continue to translate market trends into appropriate product offerings while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. Our 2010 operating plan is based on a number of material assumptions that may not occur. Our fiscal 2010 operating plan is based on a number of significant assumptions which we developed based on our historical information, current and expected economic conditions, and expectations and perceptions of our near-term and longer-term sales, financial results and cost savings, as well as many other assumptions. We have forecasted substantial cost savings from the strategic initiatives we implemented in the past, which if achieved 12 Table of Contents would improve cash flows and liquidity. The current economic environment makes it difficult to project or forecast the costs of and results to be achieved from these initiatives. There can be no assurance that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate and it is possible that actual events, actions taken and results actually achieved will be materially different, and could be more costly, than what we have assumed or forecasted, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. There are risks associated with the recent appointment of and transition to a new exclusive global merchandise buying agent. In August 2009, we reorganized our global sourcing activities and entered into a long-term buying agency agreement with an affiliate of Li & Fung Limited (“Li & Fung”) pursuant to which Li & Fung was appointed as exclusive global apparel sourcing agent for substantially all of our apparel effective September 2009. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from this arrangement will be realized or within the time periods expected. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that upon cessation of this relationship for any reason we would be able to successfully transition to an internal or other external sourcing function. Our overseas merchandise purchasing strategy makes it vulnerable to certain risks and any disruption in our supply of merchandise would materially impact us. All of our merchandise is manufactured to our specifications by third-party suppliers and intermediary vendors, most of whom are located outside the United States. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign buying agents are subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including: • political and economic instability; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the U.S. from countries in a region where we do business; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • natural disasters and public health concerns; • potential delays or disruption in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • local business practices and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards. Continued difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our suppliers, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, there is a risk that our suppliers and vendors could respond to any decrease or concern with our liquidity or negative financial results by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on stringent payment terms, such as requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices or payment upon delivery, or other assurances or credit support. There can be no assurance that one or more of our suppliers may not slow or cease shipments or require or condition their sale or shipment of merchandise on more stringent payment terms. If this was to occur and we did not or were not able to adequately respond, it could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise. We cannot predict whether the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories are currently manufactured, or any of the foreign countries in which our apparel and accessories may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel and, in that event, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our operations. We have an extensive, formal program requiring all of our manufacturers to comply with applicable labor laws and acceptable labor practices. Any failure to comply with applicable labor laws and practices by any of these manufacturers could materially harm our reputation with our customers as well as disrupt our supply of merchandise. 13 Table of Contents If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. We review the carrying value of our assets for potential impairment using a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and a market value approach. If an impairment charge is identified, the carrying value is compared to our estimated fair value and an impairment charge is recorded as appropriate. Impairment losses are significantly impacted by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. Our estimates of future operating cash flows are based upon our experience, knowledge and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. The carrying value of our assets may also be impacted by such factors as declines in stock price and in market capitalization. The recent macro-economic conditions impacted our performance and our market capitalization and it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate, and which aspects of our business may be adversely affected. These conditions and the continuation of these conditions could impact the fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future material impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. The costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. We regularly assess our portfolio of stores for profitability and we close certain underperforming stores when appropriate under the circumstances. Our strategic and realignment plans include closing underperforming stores in order to reduce operating losses and to achieve improved long-term profitability of our store base. Economic conditions may require us to close an increasing number of underperforming stores. Substantially all of our stores are leased, with lease terms continuing for up to ten years or more, and we have significant annual rent and other amounts due under each lease. While in closing underperforming stores we endeavor to negotiate with landlords the amount of remaining lease obligations, there is no assurance we will reach acceptable negotiated lease settlements, particularly in the current economic environment. As a result, costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. The estimated costs and charges associated with store closings are also based on management’s assumptions and projections and actual amounts may vary materially from our forecasts and expectations. In connection with the sale in 2009 of the J. Jill business we remain contingently responsible for certain material risks and obligations. In July 2009, we completed the sale of the J. Jill brand business. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits from the sale of the J. Jill brand business will be realized in the time or amounts anticipated. There also can be no assurance that the estimated or anticipated costs, charges and liabilities to settle and complete the transition and exit from the J. Jill brand business, including both retained obligations and contingent risk for assigned obligations, will not be materially differ from or be materially greater than anticipated. In connection with the sale of the J. Jill business to J.Jill Acquisition LLC (“Purchaser”), the Purchaser agreed to acquire and assume from us certain assets and liabilities relating to the J. Jill business. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Purchaser is obligated for liabilities that arise after the closing under assumed contracts, which include leases for 205 J. Jill stores assigned to the Purchaser and a sublease through December 2014 of approximately 63,943 square feet of space at the Company’s 126,869 square foot leased office facility in Quincy, Massachusetts. Certain of our subsidiaries remain contingently liable for obligations and liabilities transferred to the Purchaser, including those related to leases and other obligations transferred to and assumed by the Purchaser, as to which obligations and liabilities we now rely on the Purchaser’s creditworthiness as counterparty. If any material defaults were to occur which the Purchaser does not satisfy or fully indemnify us against, it could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have accrued a guarantee liability for the estimated exposure related to these guarantees, which is subject to future adjustment and could vary materially from estimated amounts. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to credit risk and to potential increased defaults and delinquencies on our customer charge card account portfolio. We extend credit to our customers for merchandise purchases through our proprietary charge card facilities. While we monitor our charge card account portfolio and we believe that our charge card account portfolio continues to be sound, the deteriorated economic environment and current high levels of unemployment may lead to higher customer delinquencies and defaults. There can be no assurance that our credit risk monitoring or our monitoring of our charge card account portfolio will guard against or enable us to adequately and timely respond to any increased risk of or actual increased customer delinquencies or defaults, which could materially and negatively impact the value of our charge card portfolio, our results of operations and liquidity, and our borrowing base under our Credit Facility. Our Credit Facility contains provisions which may restrict our operations and proposed financing and strategic transactions. Under the terms of our Credit Facility, we cannot create, assume or suffer to exist any lien securing indebtedness incurred after the closing date of the Facility subject to certain limited exceptions set forth in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains negative covenants prohibiting the Company and its subsidiaries, with certain exceptions, from among other things, incurring indebtedness and contingent obligations, making investments, intercompany loans and capital contributions, and disposing of property or assets. The Credit Facility Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants relating to the Company and its subsidiaries. The agreement provides for events of default, including failure to repay principal and interest when due and failure to perform or violation of the provisions or covenants of the agreement. Any of the above requirements or other restrictions and limitations under the Credit Facility could reduce our flexibility by limiting, without lender consent, our ability to borrow additional funds or enter into dispositions or collateralization transactions involving any of our assets or other significant transactions. Further, if we default under our Credit Facility, any amounts outstanding could become immediately due and payable prior to the maturity date, in which case absent replacement financing we would not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy this debt. Our success also depends upon our ability to maintain proper inventory levels. Our success depends upon our ability to manage proper inventory levels and respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand patterns. If we overestimate customer demand for our merchandise, this will likely result in inventory markdowns and movement of the excessive inventory to our outlet facilities to be sold at discount or closeout prices which would negatively impact operating results and could impair our brand image. If we underestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages which may result in missed sales opportunities, negative impact on customer loyalty and loss of revenues. The inability to fill customer orders efficiently could lower customer satisfaction and could cause customers to go to an alternate source for the desired products. This lowered level of customer satisfaction and improper inventory levels could adversely affect our operations. We may continue to experience fluctuations in operating results. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are timing of holidays, weather, market acceptance of our products, product mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold, the timing of merchandise receipts, our cost of merchandise, unanticipated operating costs, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the general economic conditions experienced over the past two years as well as actions of competitors. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of historical and future results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Talented personnel are critical to our success. Our success and ability to properly manage our growth and to further develop and promote our brand depends to a significant extent on both the performance of our current executive and senior management team and our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain qualified and talented management personnel in the future. In recent years, we 15 Table of Contents have added a significant number of key senior executives in the areas of brand leadership, creative, merchandising, marketing, finance and sourcing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these senior executives and other key personnel or that these key hires will be successful in achieving or maintaining better sales and improved operating results or long-term profitability for us. Our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract qualified personnel to re-fill existing positions or build new positions and departments within the organization and retain all of our key personnel. Our dependence on a single distribution facility. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores from a single facility in Lakeville, Massachusetts. Independent third-party transportation companies deliver our merchandise to our stores and our clients. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, epidemics, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by employees of the transportation companies, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and excess inventory. A major failure of our information systems could harm the business. We depend on information systems to manage our operations. Our information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial, and merchandising systems, including credit, inventory distribution and control, sales reporting, accounts payable, budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, merchandise reporting and distribution. We regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems and believe they meet industry standards. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these new systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems, or any disruptions affecting our information systems, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. The outcome of litigation and other claims is unpredictable. On January 12, 2010, a purported Talbots common shareholder filed a putative class and derivative action captioned Campbell v. The Talbots, Inc., et al., C.A. No. 5199-VCS, in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Talbots, the Talbots board of directors, AEON (U.S.A.), Inc., BPW, and certain other parties. Among other things, the complaint asserts claims for breaches of fiduciary duties, aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties, and violation of certain sections of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”) and Talbots’ by-laws. The plaintiff originally sought injunctive, declaratory, and monetary relief, including an order enjoining the consummation of the proposed merger and related transactions. On March 6, 2010, a Stipulation entered into by all parties to the litigation was filed in the Court of Chancery, pursuant to which plaintiff withdrew his motion for a preliminary injunction and, in exchange, Talbots agreed to implement and maintain certain corporate governance measures, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Stipulation. The Stipulation does not constitute dismissal, settlement, or withdrawal of Plaintiff’s claims in the litigation, and there is no assurance the parties will finally settle and discharge such claims. The defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint and intend to defend against the claims vigorously. We are also subject to other litigation and claims and administrative proceedings. We cannot predict or determine the ultimate outcome of any legal or administrative proceedings to which we are now subject or may become subject in the future or to quantify the amount or potential financial impact. Because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims and administrative proceedings, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of these or other pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, the loss, expense or other amounts attributable to any such matter. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. The foregoing risk factors are not intended to be exhaustive. We cannot assure that we have identified and discussed all of the significant factors which might affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition. Investors are urged to review this entire Annual Report as well as all of our other public disclosures and our filings with the SEC, all of which may be found on our website at www.thetalbotsinc.com under “Investor Relations”. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 