ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to risk and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our business and securities. These are not all the risks we face, and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. 17 Table of Contents Business Risks Our financial condition continued to deteriorate during 2010. We have been working to focus our business on the further development of our K-Fuel and GreenCert technologies by selling certain assets of Buckeye and Evergreen, which we refer to as the "sale of Buckeye." We entered into an agreement to sell certain assets and property in Wyoming, including certain Ft. Union assets; executing an agreement to settle litigation and a portion of the 2007 Notes; and raising additional capital through a private transaction. As part of our strategic analysis, we have investigated a number of financing alternatives, but have not yet obtained sufficient additional financing to complete our strategic re-positioning. In October 2009 we completed a financing transaction totaling $7.0 million resulting in net proceeds of $5.0 million, excluding transaction costs, and again completed a financing transaction in January 2010 totaling $8.7 million resulting in net proceeds of $8.0 million. We completed another financing transaction in March 2010 totaling $9.3 million and resulting in net proceeds of $5.0 million, excluding transaction costs. Lastly, in February 2011, we completed the private placement of our common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $14.6 million. Notwithstanding these financings and the sale of Buckeye, we continue to require additional capital. As a result of the preceding, we are in need of capital during the next twelve months. We are continuing to evaluate restructuring and capital raising alternatives. Without an additional influx of capital, we will not be able to pursue our business plan and may not be able to remain a going concern. We have a history of losses, deficits, and negative operating cash flows and will likely continue to incur losses in the future. Such losses may impair our ability to pursue our business plan and our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt over our ability to continue as a going concern. We continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial capital and other expenditures before we will have sufficient operating income and cash flow to recover all of our investments. We are not able to accurately estimate when, if ever, our cash flows from operating activities will increase sufficiently to cover these investments. Further, we may not achieve or maintain profitability or generate cash from operations in future periods. Our working capital (the amount by which our current assets exceed our current liabilities), accumulated deficit, net loss and cash used in operating activities are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In Thousands) Working capital from continuing operations $ (1,109 ) $ (21,550 ) $ 2,029 Accumulated deficit (550,285 ) (529,939 ) (473,303 ) Loss from continuing operations (16,290 ) (29,063 ) (48,160 ) Cash used in operating activities from continuing operations $ (15,692 ) $ (13,157 ) $ (27,555 ) We have substantial capital requirements and as a result, we have been, and continue to be, dependent on financing activities or sales of our equity securities to fund our operating costs. The inability to raise funds through traditional financing means or sale of our equity securities may require us to sell assets to fund our operating costs. As a result of negative cash flows from operations, we have been, and continue to be, dependent on financing activities and sales of our equity securities to fund the operating and substantial capital costs associated with our business. Our success is dependent on our ability to utilize existing resources and to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our obligations on a timely basis, to obtain financing or refinancing as may be required, to attain profitability, or a combination thereof. The continued 18 Table of Contents economic downturn has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. In addition, the economic downturn may present significant challenges for us if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or worsen. We have limited ability to access traditional bank loan financing in current market conditions. Further, our ability to access capital markets, for example, may be severely restricted at times when we need adequate funding to pay our existing indebtedness, pursue our business strategy, meet our contractual and settlement obligations, respond to changing business and economic conditions and competitive pressures, absorb negative operating results and fund our continuing operations, capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements. We may also need to sell assets to fund our operating costs to the extent that we are unable to raise adequate funds in the capital markets. Given the economic downturn, we may not be able to sell assets on favorable terms or at all. We have a limited operating history as a technology solutions company, and our business and prospects should be considered in light of the risks and difficulties typically encountered by a company with a limited operating history. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties typically encountered by a company with a limited operating history. The specific risks include whether we will be able to: •enter into or maintain strategic partnerships with vendors and other parties to maximize our K-Fuel and GreenCert technologies; •enter into agreements for the purpose of building K-Fuel and K-Direct plants or licensing of the K-Fuel technology; •enter into agreements to measure, quantify certify and verify carbon dioxide emissions or to license our GreenCert technology; •raise additional capital; •execute our business strategy; •accurately assess potential markets and effectively respond to competitive developments; •successfully market our products; •attract and retain customers for product sales; •attract and retain credit-worthy customers; •effectively manage expanding operations; and •attract and retain key personnel. We may not be successful in addressing these and other risks. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to certain litigation matters and may be subject to additional litigation in the future. As described in Item 3—Legal Proceedings, we are subject to certain litigation matters. If these litigation matters were to be determined in a manner adverse to us, we could be subject to damages or other remedies which could be material to our financial condition. Furthermore, for so long as such matters are pending, we are subject to payment of litigation expenses. 19 Table of Contents We have entered into a Settlement Agreement with certain holders of our 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes. If certain events occur, portions of the transaction could potentially unwind causing litigation to be reinstated. As described above and under Item 3—Legal Proceedings, on February 1, 2011, Evergreen and Buckeye entered into a Settlement Agreement with the Settling 2007 Noteholders and the 2009 Noteholders. There are several risks associated with this transaction. Upon execution of the Settlement Agreement, we transferred the settlement consideration to the Settling 2007 Noteholders, which included cash, warrants and releases of claims against the Settling 2007 Noteholders. The Settling 2007 Noteholders' obligations to transfer their 2007 Notes, deliver a release of their claims against us, and dismiss the Litigation will not occur for a period of between 90 to 140 days subsequent to February 1, 2011. During that period, events could occur which would excuse the Settling 2007 Noteholders from certain obligations under the Settlement Agreement, including, specifically, their obligation to transfer the 2007 Notes upon, among other things, the occurrence of a new Event of Default under the 2007 Indenture (other than our delisting); the filing of an uncured bankruptcy petition or default by us with respect to any of our obligations under the Settlement Agreement. Should an event occur that would excuse the Settling 2007 Noteholders from their further obligations under the Settlement Agreement, including their obligations to transfer their 2007 Notes, the Settling 2007 Noteholders have the right to elect not to proceed with the transfers of the 2007 Notes for redemption and such election will be entitled to retain all of the property previously transferred to them by us under the Settlement Agreement. This retained property could include up to $6.8 million in cash, a total of 531,250 warrants for the issuance of our common stock with an exercise price of $7.20, and a release executed by the Evergreen and Buckeye of all claims they have against the Settling 2007 Noteholders. Of that property, $1.45 million would be treated as a forbearance fee due the Settling 2007 Noteholders in exchange for their agreement for having entered into the Settlement Agreement. The remaining property would be deemed a payment on account of the obligations owed by us to the Settling 2007 Noteholders. Given our financial condition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funds in order to comply with all of our obligations under the Settlement Agreement, that a new Event of Default (as defined in the 2007 Indenture) will not occur, that an involuntary bankruptcy petition will not be filed against us or a subsidiary guarantor of the 2007 Notes, or that we will not voluntarily file a petition for bankruptcy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance under the terms of the Settlement Agreement that the approximately $17.3 million face value of 2007 Notes held by the Settling 2007 Noteholders will be redeemed by us and the Litigation dismissed as a result of us entering into the Settlement Agreement. Competition from other companies in the clean coal, alternative fuel and emission-reducing equipment industries, including competition resulting from deregulation in the United States power industry, could adversely affect our competitive position. Competition in the clean coal, alternative fuel and emission-reducing equipment industries could impact our ability to generate revenue from our K-Fuel process. Many of these companies in the clean coal, alternative fuel technology and emission-reducing equipment industries have financial resources greater than ours. Providers of alternative or competing technologies in these industries may be subject to less regulation, or alternatively, may enjoy subsidies that provide them with increased financial strength, or make their products or services more attractive to coal resource owners and energy consumers. Due to any of these competitive advantages, our existing and future competitors may be able to offer products more competitively priced and more widely available than ours. These companies also may have the resources to create new technologies and products that could make our process and products obsolete. Our future revenues may depend on our ability to address competition in these industries. In addition, deregulation in the United States power generating industry may result in increased competition from other producers of energy-efficient coal products, other clean fuel sources, 20 Table of Contents and other products, services and technologies designed to provide environmental and operating cost benefits similar to those which we believe are available from our K-Fuel refined coal. Competition from other companies that have developed or may develop other systems that improve power plant efficiency, measure greenhouse gases and/or certify carbon credits, could adversely affect our competitive position. Further, competition could increase depending upon the level of regulation ultimately enacted in the United States and international markets, which could further adversely affect our competitive position. We believe our GreenCert solution is a first-of-its-kind, web-based platform that brings together operational data that include highly accurate measurement of greenhouse gas emissions. Numerous competitors, with greater resources, provide performance information inside individual power plants. In addition, a number of companies are developing greenhouse gas and carbon measurement alternatives and many of these companies have greater resources than ours. Carbon measurement regulation, in both the United States and internationally, is evolving and there is no clear consensus on how carbon emissions should be measured. While we believe that our measurement tool is the most accurate tool because it is scientifically based, regulations could be enacted allowing for less precise methods and therefore, less costly methodologies to be applied. Further, there is a risk that our GreenCert technology will not be accepted by regulators and customers even though we believe it is compliant. Future revenues will be dependent upon our ability to identify and address competition in the process control and power plant management systems industries and adapt to our competition and the changing regulatory environment. We rely on key personnel and if we are unable to retain or attract qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our success is currently dependent on the performance of a small group of senior managers, key technical personnel and independent contractors that have a wide range of technical experience and expertise. For K-Fuel, this experience and expertise includes coal refining, coal thermal upgrading, thermal processing, coal gasification, coal liquefaction, engineering analysis and design and general plant operations. For GreenCert this expertise includes carbon measurement, carbon emission modeling, power generation, carbon sequestration and oxides of nitrogen and sulfur dioxide reduction analysis. In addition, our business strategy will require us to attract and retain a substantially greater number of qualified personnel and/or hire additional contractors in these key areas. The inability to retain key managerial and technical personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified managerial or technical personnel in the future could harm our business or financial condition. Overseas development of our K-Fuel and GreenCert businesses is subject to international risks, which could adversely affect our ability to license, construct overseas plants or profitably operate our businesses overseas. We believe a portion of the growth opportunity for our businesses lies outside the United States. Doing business in foreign countries may expose us to many risks that are not present domestically. We lack significant experience dealing with such risks, including political, military, privatization, technology piracy, currency exchange and repatriation risks, and higher credit risks associated with customers. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce legal obligations in foreign countries, and we may be at a disadvantage in any legal proceeding within the local jurisdiction. Local laws may also limit our ability to hold a majority interest in the projects that we develop. If the national and world-wide financial downturn continues or intensifies it could adversely impact demand for our technology and products. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our technology or products, increased incidence of customers' inability to pay their 21 Table of Contents accounts, or insolvency of our customers, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, and financial condition. Our inability to adequately protect and defend our proprietary K-Fuel and GreenCert processes could harm our business, increase our costs and decrease sales of our products and services. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary processes. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently have a series of patents and patent applications on our K-Fuel process and our GreenCert technology. However, competitors may successfully challenge the validity or scope of one or more of our patents, or any future patents. These patents alone may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Further, while our most recently issued K-Fuel patent protection covers what we believe are the unique aspects of our K-Fuel process as it is currently conducted, not all of the claims we filed were allowed. An additional patent application has been filed to address the examiner's comments and we expect some of the revised claims to be allowed. While we continue our efforts regarding these claims there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain patent protection in the United States or abroad to protect these or any other aspects of our intellectual property, or that, in the absence of any such patent protection, that the combination of additional methods that we currently employ to maintain the confidentiality of our processes will adequately safeguard our proprietary processes and information. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, this may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. Third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technologies without authorization or develop similar technologies independently. The protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our solutions, or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. Any actions taken by us to enforce our patents or other property rights could result in significant expense as well as the diversion of management time and resources. In addition, detecting infringement and misappropriation of patents or intellectual property can be difficult, and there can be no assurance that we would detect any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Even if we are able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, litigation to enforce our rights could cause us to divert significant financial and human resources from our business operations, and may not ultimately be successful. If we are required to divert significant resources and time to the enforcement of our proprietary rights, even if the enforcement is successful, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be sued for infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products or processes, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing 22 Table of Contents our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition or joint venture activities may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of or joint venture with, businesses and technologies that have operations that are complementary to our business model and strategy. However, suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. Further, these types of transactions pose substantial risks to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In pursuing these activities, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources to acquire or joint venture with attractive companies and properties. Even if future acquisitions or joint ventures are completed, the following are some of the risks associated with these activities: •the new business or property may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels; •we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses or manage joint ventures successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner; •acquisitions and joint ventures could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; •we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders; •we may finance joint venture capital contributions by issuing common stock to fund our portion of these costs; and •we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions or joint ventures. K-Fuel Process Risks We faced technical and operational issues at our Fort Union plant prior to suspending operations at the plant. These technical and operational problems may adversely impact our ability to develop future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, resulting in delays in achieving full scale commercial production of our K-Fuel refined coal. Research and development is an iterative process and our K-Fuel process has been evolving for over 25 years. Our Fort Union plant was a third generation facility developed for this purpose. The first facility was a research and development plant that currently serves as our research laboratory and test facility. The second facility was a commercial demonstration plant that we constructed with a joint venture partner and commenced operations in 1998. In June 1999, our joint venture partner suspended production at the plant due to its strategic restructuring. Thereafter, we sold our interest in the plant to our joint venture partner and in September 2002, the major equipment at the plant was purchased by a third party and removed from the site. As part of the continued development of the K-Fuel process, we analyzed the operations of this plant and some of the problems that we encountered with respect to operations and product quality and made modifications to the K-Fuel process that we believe addressed these issues. We built upon this knowledge base in designing and constructing the Fort Union plant. 23 Table of Contents While redesigned equipment and systems tested at the Fort Union plant showed positive results, we faced technical and operational problems in attempting to achieve commercial production of K-Fuel and decided to suspend operations at the plant in March 2008. Our goal was to dedicate our limited capital and human resources to building new plants built around the enhanced design and systems tested at the Fort Union plant. Problems we encountered included cost overruns, delays, technical issues, availability of workers and contractors, and weather. We may encounter similar problems at any future facilities we are able to build. Additionally, any future facilities may encounter the following additional problems: •unforeseen construction problems and limited availability of raw material or fabrication capability; •unforeseen problems not previously encountered at our Fort Union plant; and •current and future K-Fuel products may not meet the technical specifications required by our customers or other customer requirements. Our ability to effectively operate and develop K-Fuel and K-Direct facilities may be harmed to the extent these and other technical or operational problems materialize. Should we be unable to effectively develop K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, our ability to generate revenues and profits from future facilities and future licensing opportunities may be negatively impacted. In particular, because we were unable to consistently operate our Fort Union plant for sustained periods of time to produce commercial quantities of K-Fuel refined coal, it will likely be more difficult for us to enter into arrangements with customers for their regular purchase of K-Fuel refined coal at future facilities. We do not know if K-Fuel refined coal is commercially viable. While our Fort Union plant previously produced limited amounts of K-Fuel refined coal, we do not know whether K-Fuel refined coal can be produced and sold on a commercial basis in a cost effective manner after taking into account the cost of the feedstock, our production costs and the cost of transportation. As our Fort Union plant was not able to achieve full scale commercial production, we have not yet developed an efficient cost structure. We are currently using the knowledge base developed at our Fort Union plant along with supporting engineering analyses to understand our pricing and costs, as well as the quality of the product when used in K-Fuel test burns, and intend to leverage this knowledge base when constructing any additional K-Fuel plants or any K-Direct plants. We experienced technical problems with respect to the K-Fuel refined coal produced at our Fort Union plant, including coal dusting. If we fail to adequately address these technical problems to the extent they occur at future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, or any other unforeseen problems that may occur in the future, it could make K-Fuel refined coal more expensive to transport and store, and therefore more expensive to burn. Failure to address both known and unforeseen technical challenges of K-Fuel refined coal, obtain feedstock in sufficient quantity and at acceptable prices and to arrange for transportation services at reasonable prices, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Construction of future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities may require substantial lead time and significant additional financing if constructed by us or Evergreen-China. We do not currently have any definitive contracts to construct additional K-Fuel facilities or K-Direct facilities. To the extent that we identify businesses to construct K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, a lengthy permitting and construction process may commence. We estimate that it could take six months or longer to obtain necessary permits and approvals and that, depending on local circumstances, the required time could be much longer or shorter. Thereafter, construction of a facility with a capacity of approximately 1.5 million tons of K-Fuel refined coal per year could take an estimated further period of 18 to 24 months. 24 Table of Contents Prior to suspending operations at our Fort Union plant in March 2008, we estimate that we spent approximately $110 million in constructing our Fort Union plant. We estimate that the cost of constructing additional facilities, such as a 1.5 million ton per year facility, could be greater depending on additional variables, including site location, material handling equipment and design, seismic zones, labor issues, and weather and climate conditions. Such variables could potentially increase costs. We or our partners would be required to obtain substantial amounts of financing or equity contributions to undertake any such project and there can be no assurance that such financing or equity contributions would be available to us or our partners. Inability to construct additional facilities to produce K-Fuel, or to finance the construction thereof on acceptable terms, will adversely affect our financial condition. Any negative results from the continuing evaluation of K-Fuel refined coal produced at future facility sites by us or third parties could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of K-Fuel refined coal and future prospects. We and certain third parties are continuing to evaluate the attributes of K-Fuel refined coal. Further, in February 2011, we reactivated our test plant and are identifying new coals to test and we plan to test coals for potentially new applications for K-Fuel refined coal. There can be no assurance that these evaluations will result in positive findings concerning the moisture content, heating value, emission-levels, burn qualities, new applications or other aspects of our K-Fuel refined coal. Furthermore, even if current evaluations indicate that our K-Fuel refined coal performs to design specifications, there can be no assurance that later tests will confirm these current results or that our K-Fuel refined coal will be readily accepted by the market. The process of introducing our K-Fuel refined coal into the market may be further delayed if these test results are negative or if potential customers conduct their own tests of the K-Fuel refined coal to determine whether it meets their individual requirements and the results are not acceptable. Substantially all of our evaluations of K-Fuel refined coal at our Fort Union plant used Powder River Basin low-grade coal as the feedstock and we conducted only limited tests of the K-Fuel process at Fort Union using other feedstocks. However, we have conducted numerous tests of the K-Fuel process using other feedstocks in laboratories and at our test facility. The ability to use feedstocks from other locations in the United States or overseas will depend on the results of future tests on different types of coal. If these tests limit the range of viable low-grade coal feedstocks for use in the K-Fuel process, site locations for future K-Fuel or K-Direct plants may be limited and the commercial appeal of the process may be less than anticipated. If this continuing process of evaluation and market introduction results in negative findings concerning the K-Fuel process, this could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of K-Fuel refined coal and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Due to the uncertain market for, and commercial acceptance of, our K-Fuel refined coal, we may not be able to realize significant revenues from the sale of K-Fuel refined coal or licensing of our technology. While we believe that a commercial market is developing both domestically and internationally for cleaner coal products such as K-Fuel refined coal, we may face the following risks due to the developing market for our cleaner coal technology: •limited pricing information; •changes in the price differential between low and high Btu coal; •unknown costs and methods of transportation to bring K-Fuel refined coal to market; •alternative fuel supplies available at a lower price; •the cost and availability of emissions reducing equipment and other technologies that may be more desirable than the K-Fuel refined coal; 25 Table of Contents •potential future declines in energy prices which would make K-Fuel refined coal less attractive economically; •the market viability of K-Fuel refined coal based on a decline in energy prices; and •sufficient market interest for us to continue in business. If we are unable to develop markets for our K-Fuel technology, our ability to generate revenues and profits may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to license and commercialize K-Fuel production plants, our ability to generate profits from this process will be impaired. Our future success will be adversely affected if we can not locate, develop, construct, and/or license future commercial K-Fuel production plants and have them operate at a profit. Prior to suspending operations at our Fort Union plant, we were not able to achieve commercial production. A number of different variables, risks and uncertainties affect our successful construction of future K-Fuel production plants and our ability to operate such plants at a profit including: •the potentially complex, lengthy and costly regulatory permit and approval process; •local opposition to development of projects, which can increase cost and delay timelines; •increases in construction costs such as for contractors, workers and raw materials; •transportation costs and availability of transportation; •our inability to acquire adequate amounts of low rank feedstock coal at forecasted prices to meet our projected goals; •engineering, operational and technical difficulties, as discussed above; •possible price fluctuations of low rank coal, which could impact K-Fuel refined coal's profitability; and •expenditures related to researching and investigating future K-Fuel production sites, which we may not be able to recover. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our results from operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. Regulation of the K-Fuel process and K-Fuel refined coal may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our K-Fuel refined coal is currently subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, as products and commercial applications are introduced into the market, governments may impose new regulations which may increase our costs and price of our product. If the cost of compliance with applicable laws and regulations increases past that forecasted, our ability to profitably market and sell K-Fuel refined coal may be jeopardized. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs and reduce our future sales. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liabilities for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or other waste products into the environment. Future changes in the law may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services. A significant factor in expanding the potential U.S. market for K-Fuel refined coal is the numerous federal, state and local environmental regulations, which provide various air emission requirements for power generating facilities and industrial coal users. We believe that the use of clean-burning fuel technologies, like K-Fuel refined coal, will help utility companies comply with the air emission regulations and limitations. We are unable to predict future regulatory changes and the impact on the demand for our products. While more stringent laws and regulations, including mercury emission standards, limits on sulfur dioxide emissions and nitrogen oxide emissions, may increase demand for our products, such regulations may result in reduced coal use and increased reliance on alternative fuel sources. Similarly, amendments to the numerous federal and state environmental regulations that relax emission limitations would have a material adverse effect on our prospects. We do not know if the planned K-Fuel demonstration plant is viable. We are evaluating a plan to construct a demonstration scale facility that would be used to support the commercial viability of the K-Fuel process in the market. We believe that this demonstration plant could provide K-Fuel refined coal in quantities sufficient to: (i) validate the detailed fuel characteristics as required by resource owners and the comprehensive fuel acceptance processes of power generation facilities; (ii) support project development opportunities domestically and internationally; and (iii) explore further process enhancement concepts. The plant could also be used to provide additional process validation data of the core process and support systems. In the construction of the Fort Union plant, we encountered problems including cost overruns, construction and commissioning delays, technical and design issues, labor shortages and the limited availability of skilled contractors. We may encounter similar problems in the construction of the K-Fuel demonstration plant and additional difficulties, including: •unforeseen construction problems and limited availability of raw materials or equipment fabrication capability; and •unforeseen problems not previously encountered at our Fort Union plant. In addition to construction and design risks, the K-Fuel refined coal produced at the planned demonstration plant may not meet the technical specifications required by our customers or other customer requirements. We anticipate that our customers will complete evaluations concerning the moisture content, heating value, emission-levels, burn qualities, coal handling or other aspects of our K-Fuel refined coal produced at the demonstration plant. There can be no assurance that these or any other future evaluations will result in positive findings. This demonstration plant will not confirm whether K-Fuel refined coal can be produced and sold on a commercial basis in a cost effective manner after taking into account capital costs, the cost of the feedstock, our production costs and the cost of transportation. Our ability to effectively operate and develop future commercial-scale K-Fuel and K-Direct facilities may be harmed to the extent technical or operational problems materialize at the demonstration plant. Should we be unable to effectively develop K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, our ability to generate revenues and profits from future facilities and future licensing opportunities may be negatively impacted. 27 Table of Contents GreenCert Technology Risks We do not know if our GreenCert technology is commercially viable. Further, due to the uncertain market for, and commercial acceptance of our GreenCert technology, we may not be able to realize significant revenues from this technology. Our GreenCert technology is in an evolving market and as a result we do not know whether our GreenCert technology will be accepted by customers to evaluate operational efficiencies, measure greenhouse gas emissions or utilize it to manage their power generation assets more effectively. While we believe that a commercial market is developing both domestically and internationally for these attributes, we may face the following risks due to the developing market for our technology: •limited pricing information; •alternative methodologies are available at a lower price; and •sufficient market interest for us to continue in business. If we are unable to develop markets for our GreenCert technology, our ability to generate revenues and profits may be negatively impacted. Future changes in the law may adversely affect our ability to sell products and services based on our GreenCert technology. A significant factor in expanding the potential market for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gases and certification of carbon credits is the continuation and expansion of emissions regulations both in the U.S. and internationally. We are unable to predict future regulatory changes and their impact on the demand for our products. While more stringent laws and regulations may increase demand for our products, such regulations may result in reduced reliance on various sources of emissions, including coal fired power plants, or increased reliance on alternative energy sources, which do not result in the emission of greenhouse gases. Similarly, amendments to the numerous federal and state environmental regulations that relax emission limitations would have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. Rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the market in which we compete. If we are unable to continue to develop our products and services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy licenses or renew licenses. In addition, IT standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop our products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities this emerging area. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our license renewals are anticipated to be priced as a percentage of our net new license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on renewals, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. 28 Table of Contents As we release our software solution, we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in software products that underlie our solution could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of our products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of our products, we could lose revenues. End users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. In addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. Risks Relating to Our Debt, Our Common Stock and Other Risks. Our debt obligations may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt, especially given our limited cash flow from operations. In July 2007, we issued $95.0 million long-term debt due August 1, 2012, ("2007 Notes"), of which $21.6 million of principal balance was outstanding as of December 31, 2010. See further discussion in Item 8—Note 7—Debt of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our debt service obligations could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: •limiting our ability to obtain in the future, if needed, financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; •limiting our flexibility in implementing our business strategy and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to any of our competitors who have lower levels of debt; •decreasing our debt ratings and increasing our cost of borrowed funds; •making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; •subjecting us to the risk of being forced to refinance at higher interest rates these amounts when due; and •requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt instead of contributing those funds to other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing, which may be influenced by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to pay principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness depends upon our receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries, and claims of creditors of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee our indebtedness will have priority over claims you may have as for our guaranteed indebtedness with respect to the assets and earnings of those subsidiaries. We are a holding company and substantially all of our properties and assets are owned by, and all our operations are conducted through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations, including payment of the interest on and principal of our indebtedness when due, and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations in the United States and abroad and agreements made by us and our subsidiaries, including under the terms of our existing and potentially future indebtedness. In addition, claims of creditors, including trade creditors, of our subsidiaries will generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by these subsidiaries. In the event of our dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the holders of such indebtedness will not receive any amounts from our non-guarantor subsidiaries with respect to such indebtedness until after the payment in full of the claims of the creditors of those subsidiaries. We may not have the ability to repurchase the 2007 Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as required by the Indenture governing the 2007 Note. Holders of our 2007 Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase the 2007 Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which would include, among other things, the failure of our common stock to be listed on the NYSE Arca or another national securities exchange or quoted on an established automated over-the-counter trading market. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the 2007 Notes or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to repurchase the 2007 Notes for cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Our failure to repurchase the 2007 Notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the 2007 Notes and could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our then-existing indebtedness. This repurchase right may actually have the effect of making us a less attractive candidate for a fundamental change transaction. Conversion of the 2007 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have previously converted their 2007 Notes. To the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the 2007 Notes, the ownership interests of existing stockholders may be diluted. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the 2007 Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. We may not be able to refinance the 2007 Notes if required or if we so desire. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of the 2007 Notes or any other future indebtedness that we incur on or before the maturity of the 2007 Notes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unable to deduct for tax purposes the interest or original issue discount, if any, paid or accrued on the 2007 Notes. No deduction is allowed for U.S. federal income tax purposes for interest paid on a disqualified debt instrument. A disqualified debt instrument generally includes any indebtedness of a corporation 30 Table of Contents which is payable in equity of the issuer. Although we believe and intend to take the position that the 2007 Notes are not disqualified debt instruments, the 2007 Notes may be treated as disqualified debt instruments, and we may be prohibited from deducting the interest due on the Notes. Consequently, we may have less cash available with which to satisfy our obligations. Our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE Arca if we do not comply with its continued listing standards. On November 29, 2010, we were notified by the NYSE Arca, Inc. ("NYSE Arca") that were we not in compliance with the continued listing standards under Rule 5.5(b)(2) of the NYSE Arca Equities Rules. The standard requires that a listed common stock must maintain an average closing price in excess of $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. We were granted a recovery period through February 28, 2011, subject to ongoing monitoring, to regain compliance with the NYSE Arca price condition, or we could have been subject to suspension and delisting procedures. On February 28, 2011, we were notified by the NYSE Arca that we were in compliance but will be subject to a 12 month review to ensure on-going compliance with the continued listing standards. Subject to NYSE Arca rules, during the recovery period, our common stock was listed, and traded on NYSE Arca. At the end of the recovery period, we were deemed to be in compliance because we had at least a $1.00 share price and maintained a $1.00 average closing share price over the preceding 30 consecutive trading days. If our stock were to be delisted, it could reduce the liquidity of an investment in our common stock and also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. In addition, efforts to maintain our listing on the NYSE Arca may result in the incurrence of costs that could be material in any given period. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of the 2007 Notes, our common stock, or both. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of the 2007 Notes, our common stock, or both, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock or the value of the 2007 Notes. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the 2007 Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity which we expect to occur involving our common stock. This hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the market price of the 2007 Notes. 31 Table of Contents Our stock price continues to be volatile, and any investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. An investment in our common stock is risky, and stockholders could suffer significant losses and wide fluctuations in the market value of their investment. The market price of our common stock has been extremely volatile. During 2010, the sale prices of our common stock on the NYSE Arca on a post-reverse split basis ranged from a low of $0.53 to a high of $7.20. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Volatility in the market price of shares may prevent investors from being able to sell their shares of common stock at prices they view as attractive. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock, which could adversely affect the performance of our stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," under which each stockholder holds one share purchase right, which we refer to as a Right, for each share of common stock held. The Rights become exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events and may make our acquisition more difficult and expensive. In addition our certificate of incorporation, and Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. The stockholder rights plan, provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and Delaware law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial conditions, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 