ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to risk and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our business and securities. These are not all the risks we face, and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Business Risks We have a history of losses, deficits, and negative operating cash flows and will likely continue to incur losses in the future. Such losses may impair our ability to pursue our business plan. We expect to incur operating losses and continued negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial capital and other expenditures before we will have sufficient operating income and cash flow to recover our investments. We are not able to accurately estimate when, if ever, our cash flows from operating activities will increase sufficiently to cover these investments. Further, we may not achieve or maintain profitability or generate cash from operations in future periods. Our working capital (the amount by which our current assets exceed our current liabilities), accumulated deficit, net loss and cash (used in) provided by operating activities are as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) Working capital $ 45,580 $ 79,156 $ 19,910 Accumulated deficit (408,073 ) (203,397 ) (151,870 ) Net loss (204,676 ) (51,527 ) (23,313 ) Cash used in operating activities $ (51,581 ) $ (30,435 ) $ (12,071 ) We have substantial capital requirements and, as a result, we have been and continue to be dependent on financing activities or sales of our equity securities to fund our operating costs. As a result of negative cash flows from operations, we have been and continue to be dependent on financing activities and sales of our equity securities to fund the operating and substantial capital costs associated with our business. Our need for additional capital may further increase as we continue to 12 pursue our vertical integration strategy. Our success is dependent on our ability to utilize existing resources and to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our obligations on a timely basis, to obtain financing or refinancing as may be required, to attain profitability, or a combination thereof. Depending on our future operations and the conditions of the capital markets, we may not be able to continue to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. A lack of adequate financing may adversely affect our ability to pay our existing indebtedness, pursue our business strategy, respond to changing business and economic conditions and competitive pressures, absorb negative operating results and fund our continuing operations, capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements. We have a limited operating history as an energy solutions company, and our business and prospects should be considered in light of the risks and difficulties typically encountered by a company with a limited operating history. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties typically encountered by a company with a limited operating history. The specific risks include whether we will be able to: •enter into agreements for the purpose of building K-Direct and K-Fuel plants or licensing our technology; •enter into or maintain strategic partnerships with vendors and other parties to maximize our K-fuel process; •raise additional capital; •accurately assess potential markets and effectively respond to competitive developments; •attract and retain customers for product sales; •attract and retain credit-worthy customers; •effectively manage expanding operations; •successfully market our products; •economically transport coal to and from processing facilities; •execute our business strategy; and •attract and retain key personnel. We may not be successful in addressing these and other risks. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We rely on key personnel and if we are unable to retain or attract qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our success is currently dependent on the performance of a small group of senior managers, key technical personnel and independent contractors that have a wide range of technical experience and expertise in coal refining, coal thermal upgrading, thermal processing, coal gasification and coal liquification. In addition, our business strategy will require us to attract and retain a substantially greater number of qualified personnel and/or hire additional contractors. The inability to retain key managerial and technical personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified managerial or technical personnel in the future could harm our business or financial condition. Our acquisition activities may not be successful. As part of our vertical integration business strategy, we may make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we 13 find acceptable. Further, acquisitions pose substantial risks to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources to acquire attractive companies and properties. Even if future acquisitions are completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions: •the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels; •we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner; •acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; •we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders; and •we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions. Competition from other companies in the clean coal and alternative fuel technology industries, including competition resulting from deregulation in the United States power industry, could adversely affect our competitive position. Competition in the clean coal, alternative fuel and emission-reducing equipment industries could impact our ability to generate revenue from our K-Fuel process. Many of these companies in the clean coal, alternative fuel technology and emission-reducing equipment industries have financial resources greater than ours. Providers of alternative or competing technologies in these industries may be subject to less regulation, or alternatively, may enjoy subsidies that provide them with increased financial strength, or make their products or services more attractive to energy consumers. Due to any of these competitive advantages, our existing and future competitors may be able to offer products more competitively priced and more widely available than ours. These companies also may have the resources to create new technologies and products that could make our process and products obsolete. Our future revenues may depend on our ability to address competition in these industries. In addition, deregulation in the United States power generating industry may result in increased competition from other producers of energy-efficient coal products, other clean fuel sources, and other products, services and technologies designed to provide environmental and operating cost benefits similar to those which we believe are available from our K-Fuel refined coal. In turn, this could result in lower margins for our product. Overseas development of our business is subject to international risks, which could adversely affect our ability to license, construct or operate profitable overseas plants. We believe a portion of the growth opportunity for our business lies outside the United States. Doing business in foreign countries may expose us to many risks that are not present domestically. We lack significant experience dealing with such risks, including political, military, privatization, technology piracy, currency exchange and repatriation risks, and higher credit risks associated with customers. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce legal obligations in foreign countries, and we may be at a disadvantage in any legal proceeding within the local jurisdiction. Local laws may also limit our ability to hold a majority interest in the projects that we develop. 14 K-Fuel Process Risks We faced technical and operational issues with improving capacity utilization at our Fort Union plant prior to suspending operations at the plant. These technical and operational problems may adversely impact our ability to operate or develop future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, resulting in delays in achieving full scale commercial production of our K-Fuel refined coal. Research and development is an iterative process and our K-Fuel process has been evolving for approximately 25 years with the most recent material modification being the integration of the Sasol-Lurgi proprietary coal processing equipment with our patented technology, which started in 2003. Our Fort Union plant is a third generation facility developed for this purpose. The first facility was a research and development plant that currently serves as our research laboratory. The second facility was a commercial demonstration plant that we constructed with a joint venture partner and commenced operations in 1998. In June 1999, our joint venture partner suspended production at the plant due to its strategic restructuring. Thereafter, we sold our interest in the plant to our joint venture partner and in September 2002, the major equipment at the plant was purchased by a third party and removed from the site. As part of the continued development of the K-Fuel process, we analyzed the operations of this plant and some of the problems that we encountered with respect to operations and product quality and made modifications to the K-Fuel process that we believe addressed these issues. We built upon this knowledge base in designing and constructing the Fort Union plant. We faced technical and operational problems in attempting to achieve commercial production of K-Fuel at our Fort Union plant and have decided to suspend further operations at the plant. Problems we have encountered include cost overruns, delays, technical issues, availability of workers and contractors and weather. We may encounter similar problems at any future facilities we are able to build. Additionally, any future facilities may encounter the following additional problems: •unforeseen construction problems and limited availability of raw material or fabrication capability; •unforeseen problems not previously encountered at our Fort Union plant; and •current and future K-Fuel products may not meet the technical specifications required by our customers or other customer requirements. Our ability to effectively operate and develop K-Fuel and K-Direct facilities may be harmed to the extent these and other technical or operational problems materialize. Should we be unable to effectively operate and develop K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, our ability to generate revenues and profits from our existing operations as well as the potential for future facilities and future licensing opportunities may be negatively impacted. In particular, because we were unable to consistently operate our Fort Union plant for sustained periods of time to produce commercial quantities of K-Fuel refined coal, it will likely be more difficult for us to enter into arrangements with customers for their regular purchase of K-Fuel refined coal at future facilities or for us to finance the construction of additional K-Fuel plants or a K-Direct plant. We do not know if K-Fuel refined coal is commercially viable. While our Fort Union plant previously produced limited amounts of K-Fuel refined coal, we do not know whether K-Fuel refined coal can be produced and sold on a commercial basis in a cost effective manner after taking into account the cost of the feedstock, our production costs and the cost of transportation. As our Fort Union plant was not able to achieve full scale commercial production, we have not yet developed an efficient cost structure. We are currently using the knowledge base developed at our Fort Union plant to understand our pricing and costs, as well as the qualities of the product when used in K-Fuel test burns, and intend to leverage this knowledge base when constructing any additional K-Fuel plants or any K-Direct plants. We experienced technical problems with respect to 15 the K-Fuel refined coal produced at our Fort Union plant, including coal dusting. If we fail to adequately address these technical problems to the extent they occur at future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities, or any other unforeseen problems that may occur in the future, it could make K-Fuel refined coal more expensive to transport and store, and therefore more expensive to burn. Failure to address both known and unforeseen technical challenges of K-Fuel refined coal, obtain feedstock in sufficient quantity and at acceptable prices and to arrange for transportation services at reasonable prices, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Construction of future K-Fuel or K-Direct facilities will require substantial lead time and significant additional financing. We do not have any definitive contracts to construct additional K-Fuel facilities or K-Direct facilities. To the extent that we identify appropriate sites for future K-Fuel plants or agree with utilities or other businesses to construct K-Direct facilities, we will then be required to begin a lengthy permitting and construction process. We estimate that it could take at least six months or longer to obtain necessary permits and approvals and that, depending on local circumstances, the required time could be much longer. Thereafter, construction of a facility with a capacity of approximately 1.5 million tons of K-Fuel refined coal per year, which is approximately twice the size of our Fort Union plant, would take an estimated further period of 18 to 24 months. Thus, we would not expect to obtain any revenues from any such facilities before at least 2010. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that we have spent approximately $100 million in constructing our Fort Union plant, which we have decided to suspend construction and operations. We estimate that the cost of constructing additional facilities, such as a 1.5 million ton per year facility, could be greater depending on additional variables, including site location, material handling equipment and design, seismic zones, labor issues, and weather and climate conditions. Such variables could potentially increase costs. We would be required to obtain substantial amounts of financing to undertake any such project and there can be no assurance that such financing would be available to us. Inability to construct additional facilities to produce K-Fuel, or to finance the construction thereof on acceptable terms, will adversely affect our financial condition. Any negative results from the continuing evaluation of K-Fuel refined coal produced at future facility sites by us or third parties could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of K-Fuel refined coal and future prospects. Although we have currently suspended operations at our Fort Union plant, we and certain third parties are continuing to evaluate the attributes of K-Fuel refined coal previously produced at our Fort Union plant and that is produced in our laboratories. There can be no assurance that these evaluations will result in positive findings concerning the moisture content, heat value, emission-levels, burn qualities or other aspects of our K-Fuel refined coal. Furthermore, even if current evaluations indicate that our K-Fuel refined coal performs to design specifications, there can be no assurance that later tests will confirm these current results or that our K-Fuel refined coal will be readily accepted by the market. The process of introducing our K-Fuel refined coal into the market may be further delayed if these test results are negative or if potential customers conduct their own tests of the K-Fuel refined coal to determine whether it meets their individual requirements and the results are not acceptable. Substantially all of our evaluations of K-Fuel refined coal at our Fort Union plant used Powder River Basin low-grade coal as the feedstock and we conducted only limited tests of the K-Fuel process at Fort Union using other feedstocks. However, we have conducted numerous tests of the K-Fuel process using other feedstocks in our laboratories. The ability to use feedstocks from other locations in the United States or overseas will depend on the results of future tests on different types of coal. If these tests limit the range of viable low-grade coal feedstocks for use in the K-Fuel process, site locations for future K-Fuel or K-Direct plants may be limited and the commercial appeal of the process may be less than anticipated. If this continuing process of evaluation and market introduction results in negative 16 findings concerning the K-Fuel process, this could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of K-Fuel refined coal and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Due to the uncertain market for, and commercial acceptance of, our K-Fuel refined coal, we may not be able to realize significant revenues from the sale of K-Fuel refined coal. While we believe that a commercial market is developing both domestically and internationally for cleaner coal products such as K-Fuel refined coal, we may face the following risks due to the developing market for our cleaner coal technology: •limited pricing information; •changes in the price differential between low- and high-Btu coal; •unknown costs and methods of transportation to bring K-Fuel refined coal to market; •alternative fuel supplies available at a lower price; •the cost and availability of emissions-reducing equipment and other technologies that may be more desirable than the K-Fuel refined coal; •potential future declines in energy prices which would make K-Fuel refined coal less attractive economically; •the market viability of K-Fuel refined coal based on a decline in energy prices; and •sufficient market interest for us to continue in business. If we are unable to develop markets for our K-Fuel refined coal, our ability to generate revenues and profits may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to construct and commercialize K-Fuel production plants, our ability to generate profits from this process will be impaired. Our future success depends on our ability to locate, develop and construct future commercial K-Fuel production plants and operate them at a profit. Prior to suspending operations at our Fort Union plant, we were not able to achieve commercial production. A number of different variables, risks and uncertainties affect our successful construction of future K-Fuel production plants and our ability to operate such plants at a profit including: •the complex, lengthy and costly regulatory permit and approval process; •local opposition to development of projects, which can increase cost and delay timelines; •increases in construction costs such as for contractors, workers and raw materials; •transportation costs and availability of transportation; •our inability to acquire adequate amounts of low rank feedstock coal at forecasted prices to meet our projected goals; •engineering, operational and technical difficulties, as discussed above; •possible price fluctuations of low-Btu coal, which could impact K-Fuel refined coal's profitability; and •expenditures related to researching and investigating future K-Fuel production sites, which we may not be able to recover. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our results from operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 17 Regulation of the K-Fuel process and K-Fuel refined coal may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our K-Fuel refined coal is currently subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, as products and commercial applications are introduced into the market, governments may impose new regulations which may increase our costs and price of our product. If the cost of compliance with applicable laws and regulations increases past that forecasted, our ability to profitably market and sell K-Fuel refined coal may be jeopardized. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs and reduce our future sales. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liabilities for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or other waste products into the environment. Future changes in the law may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services. A significant factor in expanding the potential U.S. market for K-Fuel refined coal is the numerous federal, state and local environmental regulations, which provide various air emission requirements for power generating facilities and industrial coal users. We believe that the use of clean-burning fuel technologies, like K-Fuel refined coal, will help utility companies comply with the air emission regulations and limitations. We are unable to predict future regulatory changes and their impact on the demand for our products. While more stringent laws and regulations, including mercury emission standards, limits on sulfur dioxide emissions and nitrogen oxide emissions, may increase demand for our products, such regulations may result in reduced coal use and increased reliance on alternative fuel sources. Similarly, amendments to the numerous federal and state environmental regulations that relax emission limitations would have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Our inability to adequately protect and defend our proprietary process could harm our business, increase our costs and decrease sales of our products and services. Our success depends upon our proprietary process. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently have a series of patents and patent applications on our K-Fuel process. However, competitors may successfully challenge the validity or scope of one or more of our patents, or any future patents. These patents alone may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Further, while our most recently issued patent protection covers what we believe are the unique aspects of our K-Fuel process as it is currently conducted, not all of the claims we filed were allowed. An additional patent application has been filed to address the examiner's comments and we expect some of the revised claims to be allowed. While we continue our efforts regarding these claims there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain patent protection in the United States or abroad to protect these or any other aspects of our intellectual property, or that, in the absence of any such patent protection, that the combination of additional methods that we currently employ to maintain the confidentiality of our processes will adequately safeguard our proprietary processes and information. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, this may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. 18 Third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization or develop similar technology independently. The protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our solutions, or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. Any actions taken by us to enforce our patents or other property rights could result in significant expense as well as the diversion of management time and resources. In addition, detecting infringement and misappropriation of patents or intellectual property can be difficult, and there can be no assurance that we would detect any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Even if we are able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, litigation to enforce our rights could cause us to divert significant financial and human resources from our business operations, and may not ultimately be successful. If we are required to divert significant resources and time to the enforcement of our proprietary rights, even if the enforcement is successful, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be sued for infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products or processes, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Coal Mining Risks A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. The results of operations in our Mining segment are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. The prices we receive for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: •the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; •the demand for electricity; •the proximity to, capacity of, and cost of transportation facilities; •air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; •regulatory, administrative, and judicial decisions; and •the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 19 Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to generate the cash flows we require to improve our productivity and invest in our operations. Our coal mining production and delivery is subject to conditions and events beyond our control, which could result in higher operating expenses and/or decreased production and sales and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines and at surface mines. The level of our production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that we may experience are: •delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits for mining or surface rights; •changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the seam thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; •mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; •limited availability of mining and processing equipment and parts from suppliers; •interruptions due to transportation availability and delays; •adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; •accidental mine water discharges; •the unavailability of qualified labor; and •unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions. The occurrence of any of these conditions or events in the future may affect deliveries of coal to customers, increase our cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines or sales to our customers either permanently or for varying lengths of time, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our current business will be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. In addition to our K-Fuel business, our ability to achieve operational profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves possessing quality characteristics desired by our customers in a cost-effective manner. We have not yet applied for the permits required, or developed the mines necessary, to mine all of our reserves. Permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. In addition, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves profitably in the future. Because our reserves are depleted as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our production and revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. 20 We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our estimates of reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our internal engineers and periodically reviewed by third-party consultants. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating the quantities and qualities of recoverable reserves and costs to mine, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include: •future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, royalties and development and reclamation costs; •future mining technology improvements; •the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and •geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experiences in areas we currently mine. As a result, actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties, and costs associated with our mining operations, may vary from estimates. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. Risks Relating to Our Debt, Our Common Stock and Other Risks Our debt obligations may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt, especially given our limited cash flow from operations. In July 2007, we issued $95.0 million long-term debt due August 1, 2012. Debt service obligations from the notes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: •limiting our ability to obtain in the future, if needed, financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; •limiting our flexibility in implementing our business strategy and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to any of our competitors who have lower levels of debt; •decreasing our debt ratings and increasing our cost of borrowed funds; •making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; •subjecting us to the risk of being forced to refinance at higher interest rates these amounts when due; and •requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt instead of contributing those funds to other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing, which may be 21 influenced by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our operational flexibility. The notes contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest. These covenants include restrictions on our ability to: •incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares; •pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; •create liens on certain assets to secure debt; and •sell certain assets. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to a default under the notes. Our ability to pay principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness depends upon our receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries, and claims of creditors of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee our indebtedness will have priority over claims you may have as for our guaranteed indebtedness with respect to the assets and earnings of those subsidiaries. We are a holding company and substantially all of our properties and assets are owned by, and all our operations are conducted through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations, including payment of the interest on and principal of our indebtedness when due, and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations in the United States and abroad and agreements made by us and our subsidiaries, including under the terms of our existing and potentially future indebtedness. In addition, claims of creditors, including trade creditors, of our subsidiaries will generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by these subsidiaries. In the event of our dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the holders of such indebtedness will not receive any amounts from our non-guarantor subsidiaries with respect to such indebtedness until after the payment in full of the claims of the creditors of those subsidiaries. We may not have the ability to repurchase the notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as required by the indenture governing the notes. Holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase the notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to repurchase the notes for cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Our failure to repurchase the notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the notes and could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our then-existing indebtedness. This repurchase right may actually have the effect of making us a less attractive candidate for a fundamental change transaction. The value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay the holders of the notes in an event of default. The notes are secured by a first-priority security interest in the equity interest in our wholly owned subsidiary, Evergreen Operations, LLC. We have granted a first-priority security interest for the benefit of the holders of the notes in our and our subsidiaries' existing and future bank, investment, brokerage or other accounts holding cash and cash equivalents, subject to certain limitations. We deposited 22 $18.0 million of the proceeds from the note offering in an escrow account in which we granted a first-priority security interest for the benefit of the holders of the notes. Our intellectual property rights relating to the K-Fuel refined coal process are held by our wholly owned subsidiary, KFx Technology, LLC, which is not a subsidiary of Evergreen Operations, and consequently, none of these intellectual property rights are included in the collateral securing the notes or are the property of an obligor on the notes. The value of the equity interests of Evergreen Operations, LLC at any time will depend on market and other economic conditions, including the availability of suitable buyers, and such collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The value of such collateral for the notes could be impaired in the future as a result of changing economic conditions, our failure to implement or a change in our business strategy, competition and other future trends. In the event that a bankruptcy case is commenced by or against us, if the value of such collateral, together with the additional collateral in the form of cash and cash equivalents, if provided, is less than the amount of principal and accrued and unpaid interest on the notes and all other senior secured obligations, interest may cease to accrue on the notes from and after the date the bankruptcy petition is filed. We cannot assure holders of the notes that the proceeds from the sale or sales of all of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the amounts due on the notes in the event of a default. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts due on the notes, then holders of the notes (to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral) would only have an unsecured claim against our remaining assets. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock, and therefore the price of the notes, may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the notes or the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Because the notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. Holders who receive common stock upon conversion also will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling in our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Additionally, lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of the notes. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of the notes, our common stock, or both, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock or the value of the notes. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity which we expect to 23 occur involving our common stock. This hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the market price of the notes. Conversion of the notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have previously converted their notes. To the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes, the ownership interests of existing stockholders may be diluted. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. We may not be able to refinance the notes if required or if we so desire. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of the notes or any other future indebtedness that we incur on or before the maturity of the notes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unable to deduct for tax purposes the interest or original issue discount, if any, paid or accrued on the notes. No deduction is allowed for U.S. federal income tax purposes for interest paid on a disqualified debt instrument. A disqualified debt instrument generally includes any indebtedness of a corporation which is payable in equity of the issuer. Although we believe and intend to take the position that the notes are not disqualified debt instruments, the notes may be treated as disqualified debt instruments, and we may be prohibited from deducting the interest due on the notes. Consequently, we may have less cash available with which to satisfy our obligations. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. An investment in our common stock is risky, and stockholders could suffer significant losses and wide fluctuations in the market value of their investment. The market price of our common stock has been extremely volatile over the last twelve months; our stock price has declined approximately 80%. During 2007, the sale prices of our common stock on the NYSE Arca ranged from a low of $2.10 to a high of $10.60. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Volatility in the market price of shares may prevent investors from being able to sell their shares of common stock at prices they view as attractive. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. A substantial number of shares we have issued in exempt transactions are, or are being made, available for sale on the open market, and the resale of these securities might adversely affect our stock price. We have on file with the SEC effective registration statements for a substantial number of shares for resale. The selling stockholders under our effective registration statements will be permitted to sell their registered shares in the open market from time to time without advance notice to us or to the market and without limitations on volume. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under our registration statements, or the anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. 24 Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our organizational documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. Our board of directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval. The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial conditions, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 