ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks which we do not presently consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on us. Please also see "Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page (ii). Demand for our merchandise may decrease and the appeal of our brand image may diminish if we fail to identify and rapidly respond to consumers' fashion tastes. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our brand image and our profitability are heavily dependent upon both the priority our target customers place on fashion and on our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. Current fashion tastes place significant emphasis on a fashionable look. In the past, this emphasis has increased and decreased through fashion cycles. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately, or in a timely manner, to fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The apparel industry is highly competitive, and we may face difficulties competing successfully in the future. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry with low barriers to entry. We compete with many apparel manufacturers and distributors, both domestically and internationally, as well as many well-known designers, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do and some of whose products are priced lower than ours. Our retail and factory outlet stores compete with many other retailers, including department stores, some of whom are our major wholesale customers. Our licensed apparel and accessories compete with many well-known brands. Within each of our geographic markets, we also face significant competition from global and regional branded apparel companies, as well as retailers that market apparel under their own labels. These and other competitors pose significant challenges to our market share in our existing major domestic and foreign markets and to our ability to successfully develop new markets. In addition, our larger competitors may be better equipped than us to adapt to changing conditions that affect the competitive market. Also, the industry's low barriers to entry allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or prices of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Poor or uncertain economic conditions, and the resulting negative impact on consumer confidence and spending, have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the apparel industry and on our operating results. The apparel industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. Purchases of apparel and related merchandise are generally discretionary and therefore tend to decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times. The global economic environment began to deteriorate significantly in 2008, with declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, sovereign debt issues, increases in unemployment levels and significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets. Economic conditions remain uncertain in many markets around the world and consumer behavior remains cautious. In North America, we have continued to see relatively weaker levels of consumer confidence and a highly promotional retail environment. While we have clearly seen some signs of stabilization in both North America and internationally, there are no assurances that the global economy will continue to recover. In addition, sovereign debt issues are affecting various European countries. If the global economy continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues, operating margins and earnings across all of our segments. In addition to the factors contributing to the current economic environment, there are a number of other factors that could contribute to reduced levels of consumer spending, such as increases in interest rates, inflationary pressures, taxation rates or energy prices. Similarly, natural disasters, actual or potential terrorist acts and other conflicts can also create significant instability and uncertainty in the world, causing consumers to defer purchases or preventing our suppliers and service providers from providing required services or materials to us. These or other factors could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The continuing difficulties in the credit markets could have a negative impact on our customers, suppliers and business partners, which, in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The credit crisis that began in 2008 has had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. We believe that our cash provided by operations and existing cash and investment balances, supplemented by borrowings, if necessary, under our credit facilities, will provide us with sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future. However, the impact of this crisis on our customers, business partners, suppliers, insurance providers and financial institutions with which we do business cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of our manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet delivery date requirements. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers, distributors or licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Similarly a failure on the part of our insurance providers to meet their obligations for claims made by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Continued market difficulties or additional deterioration could jeopardize our ability to rely on those financial institutions that are parties to our various bank facilities and foreign exchange contracts. We could be exposed to a loss if the counterparty fails to meet its obligations upon our exercise of foreign exchange contracts. In addition, continued distress in the financial markets could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring its commitments. This could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. 14 Table of Contents Domestic and foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and earnings. Our international sales and some of our licensing revenue are generally derived from sales in foreign currencies, including the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Korean won and the Swiss franc. These revenues, when translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting purposes, could be materially affected by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results of operations, earnings and our ability to generate revenue growth. Furthermore, we also source products in U.S. dollars outside of the U.S. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the applicable local currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, since some of our hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility of fluctuating exchange rates, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. In addition, while the hedges are designed to reduce volatility over the forward contract period, these contracts can create volatility during the period. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. We could find that we are carrying excess inventories if we fail to anticipate consumer demand, if our international vendors do not supply quality products on a timely basis, if our merchandising strategies fail or if we do not open new and remodel existing stores on schedule. Because we must place orders with our vendors for most of our products a season or more in advance, we could end up carrying excess inventories if we fail to correctly anticipate fashion trends or consumer demand. Even if we correctly anticipate consumer fashion trends and demand, our vendors could fail to supply the quality products and materials we require at the time we need them. Moreover, we could fail to effectively market or merchandise these products once we receive them. In addition, we could fail to open new or remodeled stores on schedule, and inventory purchases made in anticipation of such store openings could remain unsold. Any of the above factors could cause us to experience excess inventories, which may result in inventory write-downs and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on the quality of our relationships with our suppliers and manufacturers. We do not own or operate any production facilities, and we depend on independent factories to supply our fabrics and to manufacture our products to our specifications. We do not have long-term contracts with any suppliers or manufacturers, and our business is dependent on our partnerships with our vendors. If manufacturing costs were to rise significantly, our product margins and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, very few of our vendors manufacture our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent contractors. If our vendors fail to ship our fabrics or products on time or to meet our quality standards or are unable to fill our orders, we might not be able to deliver products to our retail stores and wholesale customers on time or at all. Moreover, our suppliers have at times been unable to deliver finished products in a timely fashion. This has led, from time to time, to an increase in our inventory, creating potential markdowns and a resulting decrease in our profitability. As there are a finite number of skilled manufacturers that meet our requirements, it could take significant time to identify and qualify suitable alternatives, which could result in our missing retailing seasons or our wholesale customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or requiring that we lower selling prices. Since we prefer not to return merchandise to our manufacturers, 15 Table of Contents we could also have a considerable amount of unsold merchandise. Any of these problems could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our North American wholesale business is highly concentrated. If any of our large customers decrease their purchases of our products or experience financial difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In fiscal 2011, 3.1% of our consolidated net revenue came from Macy's, Inc. No other single customer or group of related customers in any of our segments accounted for more than 1.0% of our consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2011. Continued consolidation in the retail industry could further decrease the number of, or concentrate the ownership of, stores that carry our and our licensees' products. Also, as we expand the number of our retail stores, we run the risk that our wholesale customers will perceive that we are increasingly competing directly with them, which may lead them to reduce or terminate purchases of our products. In addition, in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of designer brands seeking placement in department stores, which makes any one brand potentially less attractive to department stores. If any one of our major wholesale customers decides to decrease purchases from us, to stop carrying GUESS? products or to carry our products only on terms less favorable to us, our sales and profitability could significantly decrease. Similarly, some retailers have recently experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcy, liquidation and store closures. Financial difficulties of one of our major customers could result in reduced business and higher credit risk with respect to that customer. Any of these circumstances could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Since we do not control our licensees' actions and we depend on our licensees for a substantial portion of our earnings from operations, their conduct could harm our business. We license to others the rights to produce and market certain products that are sold with our trademarks. While we retain significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. If the quality, focus, image or distribution of our licensed products diminish, consumer acceptance of and demand for the GUESS? brand and products could decline. This could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In fiscal 2011, approximately 80% of our net royalties were derived from our top five licensed product lines. A decrease in customer demand for any of these product lines could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that in most circumstances we could replace existing licensees if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We depend on our intellectual property, and our methods of protecting it may not be adequate. Our success and competitive position depend significantly upon our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We take steps to establish and protect our trademarks worldwide. Despite any precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or to determine the extent of any unauthorized use, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws do not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We also place significant value on our trade dress and the overall appearance and image of our products. However, we cannot assure you that we can prevent imitation of our products by others or prevent others from seeking to block sales of GUESS? products for violating their trademarks and proprietary rights. We also cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of GUESS?, that our proprietary rights would be upheld if challenged or that we would, in that event, not be prevented from using our trademarks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the 16 Table of Contents use of our intellectual property by others. Even if we are successful in such actions, the costs we incur could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, including tax proceedings, which could result in unexpected obligations, as well as the diversion of time and resources. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. These include various U.S. and foreign income tax matters, including customs and Value Added Tax ("VAT") matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation or regulatory matters, regardless of the merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. See also "ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings" for further discussion of our legal matters. If we fail to successfully execute our growth initiatives, including through acquisitions, our business and results of operations could be harmed. As part of our business growth initiatives, we regularly open new stores in North America. We have also continued our international expansion by opening new stores outside the U.S., both in the form of stores owned by our international licensees and distributors and through our owned stores and concessions. In addition to the store growth, we also regularly evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances and pursue those that we believe will support and contribute to our overall growth initiatives. We completed the acquisition of our former European jeanswear licensee in 2005, the acquisition of 75% of the outstanding shares of our European licensee of GUESS by MARCIANO apparel in 2006 and the acquisition of our former European licensee of children's apparel in 2008. In addition, we have entered into joint venture relationships with partners in Mexico, France and the Canary Islands and have been directly operating our South Korea and China businesses since 2007, and our international jewelry business since 2010. This expansion effort places increased demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources that could prevent or delay the successful opening of new stores, adversely impact the performance of our existing stores and adversely impact our overall results of operations. In addition, acquired businesses and additional store openings may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate, particularly during economic downturns. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Failing to acquire and successfully integrate complementary businesses, or failing to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our planned U.S. and international retail expansion, which could harm our business and negatively affect our results of operations. To open and operate new stores successfully, we must: •identify desirable locations, the availability of which is out of our control; •negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; •efficiently build and equip the new stores; •source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of the new stores; •hire, train and retain competent store personnel; •successfully integrate the new stores into our existing operations; and 17 Table of Contents •satisfy the fashion preferences of customers in the new geographic areas. Any of these challenges could delay our store openings, prevent us from completing our store opening plans or hinder the operations of stores we do open. We cannot be sure that we can successfully complete our planned expansion or that our new stores will be profitable. Such things as unfavorable economic and business conditions and changing consumer preferences could also interfere with our plans to expand. Failure to successfully develop and manage our newer store concepts could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to our core GUESS? retail and factory stores, we continue to develop and refine the GUESS by MARCIANO, GUESS? Accessories and G by GUESS store concepts. The introduction and growth of several new store concepts as part of our overall growth strategy could strain our financial and management resources. Additionally, successfully developing new brands is subject to a number of risks, including customer acceptance, product differentiation, competition and obtaining desirable locations. These risks may be compounded during the current or any future economic downturn. There can be no assurance that these concepts will achieve or maintain sales and profitability levels that justify the required investments. If we are unable to successfully develop and manage these multiple store concepts, or if consumers are not receptive to the products or store concepts, our results of operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our business is global in scope and can be impacted by factors beyond our control. During fiscal 2011, we sourced most of our finished products with partners and suppliers outside the U.S. and we continued to design and purchase fabrics globally. In addition, we have been increasing our international sales of product outside of the United States. In fiscal 2011, over half of our consolidated net revenue was generated by sales from outside of the United States. We anticipate that these international revenues will continue to grow as a percentage of our total business. Further, as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. As a result of our increasing international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control. Such factors that could harm our results of operations and financial condition include, among other things: •political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries where we operate or in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located; •recessions in foreign economies; •inflationary pressures and volatility in foreign economies; •reduced global demand resulting in the closing of manufacturing facilities; •challenges in managing broadly dispersed foreign operations; •local business practices that do not conform to legal or ethical guidelines; •adoption of additional or revised quotas, restrictions or regulations relating to imports or exports; •additional or increased customs duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; •delays in receipts due to our distribution centers as a result of increasing security requirements at U.S. or other ports; •significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; •increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions; 18 Table of Contents •social, labor, legal or economic instability in the foreign markets in which we do business, which could influence our ability to sell our products in these international markets; •restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions; and •our ability and the ability of our international licensees and distributors to locate and continue to open desirable new retail locations; •natural disasters in areas in which our contractors, suppliers, or customers are located. In addition to these factors, the United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. If we are unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because of capacity constraints or visa availability under the required quota category or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the price or availability of quality raw materials and commodities could increase costs and negatively impact profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, currency fluctuations, crop yields, weather patterns, supply conditions, government regulations, labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, economic climate, market speculation and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or in the price of, raw materials, labor, freight or other commodities including oil, could begin to negatively impact the cost of product purchases primarily in the second half of fiscal 2012. The Company has plans to mitigate some of these effects through price increases on select items, supply chain initiatives, reduced markdowns and mix. However, there can be no assurances that these actions will be successful. In addition, increased prices could lead to reduced customer demand. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimate of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, the resolution of uncertain tax positions, and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. We are subject to routine compliance reviews on various tax matters around the world in the ordinary course of business. Currently, several income tax audits are underway for various periods in multiple tax jurisdictions. The Company has substantially concluded all U.S. federal, foreign, state and foreign local income tax matters for years through fiscal 2005. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of the resolution of any particular tax matter, we do not expect the results of these audits to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, should our estimates be incorrect, our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by the results of these and other such tax audits and negotiations. From time to time, we make various Value Added Tax ("VAT") and other tax related refund claims with various foreign tax authorities that are audited by those authorities for compliance. Failure by these 19 Table of Contents foreign governments to approve these claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Violation of labor and other laws and practices by our licensees or suppliers could harm our business. We require our licensing partners and suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines and monitoring programs promote ethical business practices, we do not control our licensees or suppliers or their labor or other business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by any of our licensees or suppliers, or divergence of a licensee's or supplier's business practices or social responsibility standards from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of our products, harm the value of our trademarks, damage our reputation or expose us to potential liability for their wrongdoings. Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. The efficient operation of our business is very dependent on our computer and information systems. In particular, we rely heavily on our merchandise management and ERP systems used to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. In addition, we have e-commerce and other Internet websites in the U.S. and a number of other countries. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, ineffective upgrades or support from third party vendors, difficulties in replacing or integrating new systems, security breaches, computer viruses and power outages. Any such problems or interruptions could result in incorrect information being supplied to management, inefficient ordering and replenishment of products, loss of orders, the incurrence of significant expenditures, disruption of our operations and other adverse impacts to our business. A privacy breach could damage our reputation and customer relationships, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation and our customer relationships, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. A significant disruption at any of our distribution facilities could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. Our U.S. business relies primarily on a single distribution center located in Louisville, Kentucky to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our U.S. stores and wholesale customers. Distribution of our products in Canada is handled primarily from a single distribution center in Montreal, Quebec. Distribution of our products in Europe is now handled primarily by a single distribution center in Piacenza, Italy, operated by a third party distributor. Additionally, we utilize several third party distributor operated warehouses in Hong Kong, South Korea and China that service the Pacific Rim. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of our distribution centers due to natural disasters, weather conditions, accidents, system failures, labor issues, relationships with our third party warehouse operators or other unforeseen causes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace inventory and fill orders, negatively impacting our sales and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise to our stores and wholesale customers could lead to disruptions to our business. The efficient operation of our global retail and wholesale businesses depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our regional distribution centers. We deliver merchandise to our stores and wholesale customers using independent third parties. The independent third parties have employees which may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to our distribution needs could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our two most senior executive officers own a significant percentage of our common stock. Their interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Maurice Marciano and Paul Marciano, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, collectively beneficially own approximately 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock. The sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, these individuals may have different interests than our other stockholders and, accordingly, they may direct the operations of our business in a manner contrary to the interests of our other stockholders. As long as these individuals own a significant percentage of our common stock, they may effectively be able to: •elect our directors; •amend or prevent amendment of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws; •effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and •control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote. Their stock ownership, together with the anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of applicable Delaware law and our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, may discourage acquisition bids or allow the Marcianos to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by our other stockholders, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our common stock price. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team or to retain or attract other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization in order to ensure the timely delivery of desirable merchandise in appropriate quantities to our stores and other customers. This execution requires experienced and talented management in design, production, operations, merchandising and advertising. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Maurice Marciano and Paul Marciano, and other key personnel. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of one or both of the Marcianos or other key personnel could materially harm our business. We are the beneficiary of a $10 million "key man" insurance policy on the life of Paul Marciano, but we do not have any other "key man" insurance with respect to either of the Marcianos or other key employees, and any of them may leave us at any time, which could severely disrupt our business and future operating results. 21 Table of Contents Fluctuations in quarterly performance including comparable store sales, sales per square foot, timing of wholesale orders, royalty net revenue or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations for each of our business segments have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. Further, if our retail store expansion plans, both domestically and internationally, fail to meet our expected results, our overhead and other related expansion costs would increase without an offsetting increase in sales and net revenue. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our net revenue and operating results have historically been lower in the first half of our fiscal year due to general seasonal trends in the apparel and retail industries. Our comparable store sales, quarterly results of operations and other income are also affected by a variety of other factors, including: •shifts in consumer tastes and fashion trends; •the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores; •calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; •the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments; •the effectiveness of our inventory management; •changes in our merchandise mix; •changes in our mix of revenues by segment; •the timing of promotional events; •actions by competitors; •weather conditions; •changes in the business environment; •inflationary changes in prices and costs; •changes in currency exchange rates; •population trends; •changes in patterns of commerce such as the expansion of electronic commerce; •the level of pre-operating expenses associated with new stores; and •volatility in securities' markets which could impact the value of our investments in non-operating assets. An unfavorable change in any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 