Item 1A. Risk Factors Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We are significantly leveraged with total indebtedness of approximately $488.6 million as of December 31, 2007. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness and certain other information as of December 31, 2007: as of (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2007 Senior credit facility: Revolving credit facility $ 157.9 Institutional term loan 121.6 Senior subordinated notes (1) 204.0 Other 8.0 Total debt $ 491.5 Shareholders’ equity $ 567.8 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (2) 2.3x (1) excludes the effect of the $2.9 million discount from face value. (2) for purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of income before taxes minus net undistributed equity earnings minus capitalized interest plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense (including amortization of debt issuance costs), capitalized interest and the portion of operating rental expense that management believes is representative of the interest component of rent expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and we could be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facility and our indenture agreement for our senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our senior credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 10 Table of Contents Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture for our senior subordinated notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Additionally, our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides commitments of up to $497.7 million in the aggregate, including a revolving credit facility of up to $375.0 million. At December 31, 2007, outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility were $157.9 million, $16.4 million of letters of credit were outstanding and $200.7 million was available to be borrowed. Under the terms of this agreement, we are required to repay $30.9 on the term note before March 30, 2008. Our principal operating subsidiary, Gibraltar Steel Corporation of New York, is also a borrower under our senior credit facility and the full amount of our commitments under the revolving credit facility may be borrowed by that subsidiary. In addition our substantial degree of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations are dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and may not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior credit facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. Our principal raw material is flat-rolled steel, which we purchase from multiple primary steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is very cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs. Other significant raw materials we use include aluminum, plastics and copper, which are also subject to volatility. Global consolidation of the primary steel producers and increased input costs have continued to put upward pressure on market prices for steel. Demand for steel increased during 2004, for example, especially in China, and steel producers experienced a shortage of steel scrap and coke, two key materials used in the manufacture of steel. The shortage of these raw materials resulted in significant increases in both steel demand and steel pricing in 2004 and early 2005. To hedge against further price increases and potential shortages, we purchased significant quantities of steel. When steel prices began to decline in mid-2005, our gross profit margins suffered a decline from the corresponding period in 2004 partly because we were selling inventory produced with this high-cost steel, and, contrary to 2004, we were operating under pricing pressure from our customers in our Processed Metal Products segment. 11 Table of Contents We are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices and market conditions. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will impact how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the profitability of our business could be adversely affected. The building and construction industry and the automotive industry account for a significant portion of our sales, and reduced demand from these industries is likely to adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. Net sales of our Building Products segment, which sells products for use in the building and construction industry, accounted for approximately 62.2%, 69.9% and 70.8% of our net sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. These sales were made primarily to retail home improvement centers and wholesale distributors. We also sell some products in our Processed Metal Products segment to customers in the building and construction industry. For 2007, The Home Depot accounted for approximately 9.0% of our gross sales. A loss of sales to the building and construction industry, or to the specified customer, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. For example, our sales of building products decreased during 2007 due to a decline in demand in the new build residential building industry, causing a decrease in net sales in our historic building products businesses. This reduction in volume caused a decrease in our operating margins in that segment compared to the prior year. This industry is cyclical, with product demand based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. A portion of our business is highly dependent on automotive manufacturers, many of which have publicly announced plans to reduce production levels and eliminate excess manufacturing capacity including plans to eliminate jobs and reduce costs. The financial difficulties of certain customers and the efforts under way by our customers to improve their overall financial condition could result in numerous changes that are beyond our control, including additional unannounced customer plant closings, decreased production, changes in the product mix or distribution patterns, volume reductions, labor disruptions, mandatory reductions other unfavorable changes in our pricing, terms or service conditions or market share losses, as well as other changes we may not accurately anticipate. These events could adversely impact our financial results. We estimate that net sales of our products for use in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 27.4%, 19.9% and 17.5% of our net sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Such sales include sales directly to auto manufacturers and to manufacturers of automotive components and parts. The automotive industry experiences significant fluctuations in demand based on numerous factors such as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. In 2006, for example, our sales of processed steel products to the Big Three automotive manufacturers decreased in comparison to 2005, contributing to a decrease in our operating margins in the Processed Metals Products segment compared to the same quarter in the prior year. The domestic auto industry is currently experiencing a difficult operating environment that may result in lower levels of vehicle production and decreased demand for our products in the processed metals products segment. Downturns in demand from the building and construction industry, the automotive industry or any of the other industries we serve, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We may not be able to identify, manage and integrate future acquisitions successfully, and if we are unable to do so, we are unlikely to sustain our historical growth rates and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness may decline. Historically, we have grown through a combination of internal growth and external expansion through acquisitions. Although we intend to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if we do, that we will be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business effectively and profitably into our existing operations. 12 Table of Contents Integration of an acquired business could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations and could result in contingent liabilities that were not anticipated. Further, failure to integrate successfully any acquisition may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Consummating an acquisition could require us to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional debt financing would increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flows otherwise available to reinvest in our business and may not be available on satisfactory terms when required. Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our primary suppliers. If, for any reason, our primary suppliers of flat-rolled steel, aluminum or other metals should curtail or discontinue deliveries to us in quantities we need and at prices that are competitive, our business could suffer. The number of available suppliers has been reduced in recent years due to industry consolidation and bankruptcies affecting steel and metal producers, and this trend may continue. Our top ten suppliers accounted for 34% of our purchases during 2007. We could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier or several suppliers. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. In early 2004, we experienced temporary supply shortages in the aluminum market. If, in the future, we were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which would have a material adverse effect on our results, profitability and cash flow. Increases in energy and freight prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. In particular, our building products and processed metal products plants use considerable electricity. Our operating costs increase if energy costs rise, which occurred in 2006. During periods of higher freight and energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. For example, we estimate that increases in energy costs have increased our cost of sales and, to a lesser degree, selling, general and administrative expense by approximately $2.4 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our gross sales, and the loss of those customers would adversely affect us. Some of our customers are material to our business and results of operations. In 2007, ten of our largest customers accounted for approximately 26.9% of our gross sales. Our percentage of gross sales to our major customers may increase if we are successful in pursuing our strategy of broadening the range of products we sell to existing customers. In such an event, or in the event of any consolidation in the industries we serve, including the retail and automotive industries, our gross sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of our top customers. These customers are also able to exert pricing and other influence on us, requiring us to market, deliver and promote our products in a manner that may be more costly to us. Moreover, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, as is typical in the industries we serve. As a result, although our customers periodically provide indications of their product needs and purchases, they generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. 13 Table of Contents Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit, net income and cash flows. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price, raw materials and inventory availability and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. Our competition in the markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have more established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income and cash flow and cause us to lose market share. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a stockholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company. Approximately 18.3% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable under options and similar compensatory instruments granted which are exercisable, or which are vested or will vest within 60 days, are owned by Brian J. Lipke, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of our Company and Eric R. Lipke, Neil E. Lipke, Meredith A. Lipke and Curtis W. Lipke, all of whom are siblings, and certain trusts for the benefit of each of them. As a result, the Lipke family has significant influence over all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Through their concentration of voting power, the Lipke family could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our Company. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Lipke family may be influenced by interests that conflict with other stakeholders. In addition, the Lipke family may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in the Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to our other stakeholders. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Brian J. Lipke, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Henning Kornbrekke, our President and Chief Operating Officer. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations of, environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of or at facilities we divested, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits and cash flow. We may be held strictly liable for the contamination of these sites, and the amount of that liability could be material. Under the “joint and several” liability principle of certain environmental laws, we may be held liable for all remediation costs at a particular site. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Labor disruptions at any of our major customers or at our own manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Many of our important customers, including in the automotive industry, have heavily unionized workforces and have sometimes experienced significant labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs and strikes. A labor disruption at one or more of our major customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause the customer to halt or limit orders for our products and services. Any such reduction in the demand for our products and services would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, approximately 19.4% of our own employees are represented by unions through various collective bargaining agreements, two of which expired on December 31, 2007 and others that are scheduled to expire between January 31, 2008 and March 31, 2011. The production employees at one of our facilities voted to join a union in August 2007 and we are currently negotiating their initial agreement. It is likely that our unionized employees will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of these agreements, and we may be unable to negotiate new agreements without labor disruption. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of our facilities. If any labor disruption were to occur at our facilities, we could lose sales due to interruptions in production and could incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow. Our net sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters primarily due to reduced activity in the building and construction industry due to weather, as well as customer plant shutdowns in the automotive industry due to holidays and model changeovers. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of large customer orders. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may not be able to service our indebtedness. A default under any of our indebtedness would prevent us from borrowing additional funds and limit our ability to pay interest or principal, and allow our senior secured lenders to enforce their liens against our personal property. Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our financial results. Although the majority of our business activity takes place in the United States, we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in foreign countries, and are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented approximately 10.2% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. We have facilities in Canada, China, Germany, Poland and England. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States or in governmental policies, laws or regulations, terrorist activity that may cause social disruption, logistical and communications challenges, costs of complying with a variety of laws and regulations, difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, deterioration of foreign economic conditions, currency rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions, differing local business practices and cultural considerations, restrictions on imports and exports or sources of supply and changes in duties or taxes. We believe that our business activities outside of the United States involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities. We have not yet fully evaluated the internal control over financial reporting of Florence, Noll and Dramex, and any deficiencies in their internal controls that we may find would require us to spend resources to correct those deficiencies and could adversely affect market confidence in our reported consolidated financial information and the market price of our securities. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at the Company, including all our subsidiaries, is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. We are currently subject to Sections 302, 404 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the assessment of our management included in our annual report on Form 10-K. However, because Florence, Noll and Dramex (the Current Year Acquisitions) were private companies when we acquired them, these companies were not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and we are continuing to evaluate the strength of their internal control over financial reporting. 15 Table of Contents As independent, privately owned companies, the Current Year Acquisitions did not operate under a fully documented system for accounting and internal control over financial reporting, and we will need to document that control structure and may need to improve it. If in the course of the integration process, we identify any significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting which is in effect at any of the Current Year Acquisitions, we will be required to spend time and money to remedy those deficiencies. If we are unable to sufficiently integrate the control structure in effect at the Current Year Acquisitions into our structure or correct any deficiencies we identify in a timely manner, we may conclude that these circumstances constitute a material weakness in the internal control over financial reporting of our Company. If we were to reach such a conclusion, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Investors could lose confidence in our reported consolidated financial information as a result, and the market price of our securities could decline. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations. Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • incur debt that is senior to our Senior Subordinated notes but junior to our senior credit facilities and other senior indebtedness; • incur liens; • restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility (which includes our $375.0 million revolving credit facility and our $122.7 million term loan facility) require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If such event of default and election occur, the lenders under our senior credit facility would be entitled to be paid before current senior subordinated note holders receive any payment under our senior subordinated notes. In addition, if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. 16 Table of Contents We have pledged substantially all our assets as collateral under our senior credit facility. If the lenders under our senior credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facility and our other indebtedness, including our senior subordinated notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. We are subject to information system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations. We are dependent upon information technology for the distribution of information internally and also to our customers and suppliers. This information technology is subject to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breaches and defects in design. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions, but a system failure or failure to implement new systems properly could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers, could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Business disruptions, including increased costs for or interruptions in the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards, from casualty events, such as fires or material equipment breakdown, from acts of terrorism, from pandemic disease, from labor disruptions, or from other events such as required maintenance shutdowns, could cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers. Such interruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our senior credit facility, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Assuming all revolving loans and the term loan were fully drawn or funded on December 31, 2007, as applicable, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $1.2 million change in annual interest expense on our senior credit facility. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 