Item 1A. RISK FACTORS • Our acquisition of Umeco involves a number of integration risks. The occurrence of any of the events described in these risks could cause a material adverse effect on the segment, our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Successful integration of Umeco is critical to our business and strategic plans. If we are unable to successfully integrate Umeco into our business in an efficient and effective manner, or at all, we could fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, such as increased revenue, cost savings, synergies and growth opportunities, within the anticipated time frame or at all. The integration process could disrupt our business and an unsuccessful integration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and results of operations. In addition, the integration could result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and diversion of management’s attention and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Potential difficulties of integration include, among others: (1) inability to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products, personnel and business systems; (2) unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; (3) retaining key employees; (4) retaining customers; (5) preserving strategic relationships; (6) integrating legal and financial controls; (7) diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; (8) integrating geographically separate organizations; (9) tax issues; and (10) complying with laws, rules and regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including employment regulations and U.S. export controls. Additional risks could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and results of operations. • Our successful and timely completion of six major capital projects involves a number of risks. We have limited capacity available for future growth in several important product lines. We have ongoing capital projects to (i) expand our aerospace adhesive manufacturing capacity at Havre de Grace, Maryland; (ii) expand our KM polymer manufacturing capacity at Kalamazoo, Michigan; (iii) expand our prepreg manufacturing capacity at Greenville, Texas; (iv) expand our MEP manufacturing capacity in Nagpur, India; (v) expand our mining and phosphine chemicals manufacturing -11- Table of Contents capacity in Welland, Ontario; and (vi) expand our carbon fiber manufacturing capacity in Greenville, South Carolina. A protracted late start or failure to successfully startup any of these expansion projects whether for construction delays, permitting issues or otherwise, could lead to reduced revenue and growth opportunities, potential contractual penalties for failures to meet customer requirements and/or potential loss of market share. In addition, any unanticipated problems, expenses or additional capital required to complete any of these projects could lead to reduced profitability or returns to the applicable business segment and overall company. • Portfolio Management – Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw certain segments and/or product lines. We announced that we have signed a definitive agreement to divest our Coating Resins segment. A sale of this segment may lead to a non-cash loss or require further cash restructuring charges, including those related to the significant stranded costs from such a transaction. A delay in the anticipated closing date could delay the stock repurchase anticipated to be funded with the proceeds from the sale, with an adverse effect on anticipated earnings per share. See “Risk Factors – Uses of Cash”. • Uses of Cash We have significant cash balances on hand which would increase with net proceeds from a sale of a business or product line. Our uses of cash are as follows: maintenance of business capital and funding; expansion capital in our growth product lines; bolt-on acquisitions, debt repurchase and return of excess cash to shareholders through stock buyback and dividends. The use of cash for capacity expansions or bolt-on acquisitions requires the use of significant estimates by management on future revenues and costs. If the actual results for revenues are materially less or costs materially higher than the estimates made by management, it would reduce the returns on the use of the cash employed and future cash generation. We expect to use a significant amount of cash proceeds from the sale of Coating Resins to repurchase our stock. If this did not occur, or if the repurchase occured later than anticipated or at higher than anticipated prices, earnings per share estimates could be materially different than forecasted. • Restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, acquisition intangible impairment, or other asset impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $21.2 in 2012 principally related to employee severance. See Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis each October 1st and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible asset may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. In total, we had goodwill of $525.3 and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $183.7 at December 31, 2012. See “Significant Accounting Estimates / Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for further discussion on our goodwill impairment testing. • Loss of certain significant customers, such as Boeing, may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several significant customers may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results. • Some of the markets in which we operate have experienced business cycles and have experienced downturns and deterioration in any such cyclical markets could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. • Reductions in aerospace or defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales which could adversely affect our revenue and financial conditions. • Interruptions in our supply chain from key suppliers or increases in the cost of raw materials could negatively affect our profitability. -12- Table of Contents See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers” • Loss or reductions of sales from certain programs from customers such as the Boeing 787 program or Lockheed Martin Joint Strike Fighter may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several programs may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results. • We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Competition” • We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – International” • Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Operating Risks” • We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” • We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk. See “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” • We are subject to cyber-security risks. We are subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to unauthorized access and loss of our proprietary data and intellectual property. In addition, our information technology (“IT”) systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, natural disasters and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information or intellectual property, it could lead to claims against us, affect our relationships with our customers, cause damage to our reputation, and ultimately harm our business. To protect against these risks, we follow industry standard practices for employing security solutions to minimize the potential of unauthorized access or malicious activity impacting our company systems and data. We also engage third party consultants to assess our security systems to ensure our security solutions are operating effectively. • A downturn in global economic conditions coupled with a lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customers’ demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable with us and/or their viability. We attempt to mitigate the risks associated with extending credit to our customers by maintaining detailed credit procedures and routinely updating customer credit limits. It is possible that these procedures will not fully mitigate customer collectability risk. Our results of operations in 2012 and 2011 were not significantly impacted by the inability of our customers to pay. However, the risks associated with extending credit to our customers could increase if global economic conditions or the financial viability of our customers worsen. • A downturn in global economic conditions could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to supply our raw materials requirements. Our suppliers could be impacted by a downturn in global economic conditions in many of the same ways that such conditions would impact us. If economic conditions deteriorate or the financial viability of our suppliers worsens, our suppliers may not be able to meet their raw material commitments to us, could request shortened payment terms, or could reduce or in extreme cases eliminate the amount of credit they extend to us. Our operations in 2012 and 2011 were not significantly impacted by these factors due to the diversity of our supplier base and our materials sourcing strategies. However, it is possible that such procedures and strategy may not completely eliminate these risks. • If the current global economic recovery weakens, it could significantly impact our results of operations and cash flows. This could impact our ability to fund certain investments for growth, could cause a significant reduction in global operations, our ability to borrow and impact our current credit rating. As we have experienced in the past, downturns in the global economy can especially impact the automotive, construction and general industrial markets that we serve and could lead to a significant reduction in our sales and operating profitability. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may be forced to take additional cost reduction initiatives that could lead to further reductions in profitability and could jeopardize our ability to fund growth programs designed to position us for success when economic conditions improve. Further, the reduced profitability and cash -13- Table of Contents generation that would be triggered by a weakening of economic conditions could (1) limit the amounts we can borrow under our primary credit facility due to the covenants contained in the agreement, and (2) could unfavorably impact our credit rating. In both instances, our ability to borrow could be limited and thus our liquidity adversely impacted. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 