D. Risk Factors An investment in the common shares of the Company (“Common Shares”) is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones faced. Additional risks that we are either unaware of, or we are aware of, but we currently believe are immaterial, may become important factors that affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and investors may lose all of their investment. In September 2002, the Company signed a Mine Operating Contract (the “MOC”) with the Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (the “CVG”), which granted Crystallex exclusive rights to develop and operate the Las Cristinas gold properties (“Las Cristinas Project” or “Las Cristinas”) located in Bolivar State, Venezuela. Notwithstanding the Company’s compliance with the MOC, on February 3, 2011, the MOC was unilaterally terminated by the CVG. The Company believes there is no justification for this failure to grant the permit and subsequent unilateral rescission under Venezuelan or international law and, as a result, on February 16, 2011, the Company filed a Request for Arbitration (“Arbitration Request”) before the Additional Facility of the World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”) against Venezuela pursuant to the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Republic of Venezuela for the Promotion and Protection of Investments (the “Treaty”). Crystallex is currently seeking the restitution by Venezuela of its investments in Las Cristinas, including reinstatement of the MOC, the issuance of the Permit and compensation for interim losses suffered, or alternatively, full compensation for the loss in value of its investment in an amount of $3.4 billion plus accrued interest. The arbitral proceedings are described in further detail in Item 4B. On December 23, 2011, the Company voluntarily applied for and obtained an order (the “Initial Order”) from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Commercial List) (the “Court”) granting protection under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (“CCAA”). The Initial Order provided for a general stay of proceedings for 30 days; however, subsequent court orders extended the stay until January 31, 2013. The Company has secured a court approved $36 million debtor-in-possession loan facility (the “DIP Facility”) and entered into a senior secured credit agreement dated April 23, 2012, (the “Credit Agreement”), attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 . The DIP Facility was provided by an entity controlled by Tenor Special Situations Fund L.P. (such entity and its successors, assigns and other permitted transferees are referred to herein as “Tenor”). The CCAA proceedings and DIP Facility are described in further detail in Item 4B. Risks relating to the Company’s restructuring process under CCAA The Company is proceeding under the CCAA. The Company’s business, operations and financial position are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings, including without limitation, risks associated with the Company’s ability to: • stabilize and preserve the business, develop and implement a restructuring plan in an appropriate time frame, resolve issues with creditors and other parties affected by the CCAA proceedings, obtain requisite court approvals and creditor and other required approvals for a restructuring plan and obtain any necessary court approval for sale of assets; 4 Table of Contents • utilize cash available under the DIP Facility to fund operations, operate within the restrictions and limitations of the DIP Facility, obtain sufficient exit financing to permit a satisfactory exit from the CCAA process and to realize fair value of any assets sold under the CCAA process; • obtain court orders or approvals for our proposed actions, including extensions of stays of proceedings and timely approval of asset sales or other transactions outside the ordinary course of business, resolve and compromise creditor claims and other claims made against the Company in its CCAA proceeding, prevent third parties from obtaining court orders adverse to the Company’s interests, and disclaim or terminate contracts. No assurance can be made as to the values that will be allocated to the Company’s pre-CCAA liabilities or currently outstanding Common Shares. It should be recognized that the Company’s current Common Shares may have no value and may be cancelled under a restructuring plan or other restructuring process under the Company’s CCAA proceedings. The value of the Company’s pre-CCAA liabilities and Common Shares is accordingly highly uncertain. As at December 31, 2011, the company’s liabilities exceeded the book value of its assets by $123.5 million. The proceedings under the CCAA raise substantial doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Due to the risks and uncertainties associated with its proceedings under CCAA, the Company cannot predict the final outcome of the restructuring process or the potential impact on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Although the CCAA proceedings and DIP financing arrangements allow the Company to stabilize its operations, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings or to have any assurance the Company will be successful in the restructuring process. Accordingly, there is significant doubt as to whether the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on developing and implementing a restructuring plan and restructuring obligations in a manner that allows the Company to obtain court approval under the CCAA. Even if the Company is able to emerge from the CCAA proceedings, there can be no assurance as to the long term viability of all or any part of the enterprise or of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Operating under the CCAA for an extended period may increase the required payment of restructuring costs associated with operating under the CCAA beyond the Company’s available liquidity. The Company’s Common Shares were delisted on the NYSE Amex LLC (the “Exchange”) on August 11, 2011 following the suspension of trading on June 1, 2011 and on the Toronto Stock Exchange, (“TSX”) at the close of trading on January 6, 2012. Cease trade orders (“CTOs”) have been issued by applicable Canadian securities regulatory authorities thereby effectively preventing the trading of the Company’s securities in Canada. The Company may not be able to successfully develop, obtain the necessary approvals or implement a restructuring plan. Failure to do so within the time periods granted under the CCAA proceeding could result in the liquidation of the Company’s assets. The Company must obtain court and creditor approvals to complete the restructuring process. If it does obtain such approvals and even if such approvals are obtained, a dissenting holder claim against the Company may challenge and delay the final approval and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. If it is not successful in developing a restructuring plan, or if the requisite approvals are not obtained, the Company may not be able to reorganize its business. Should the stay of proceedings under the CCAA not be sufficient to develop a restructuring plan or should such plan not be approved by creditors and the courts, or should the stay of proceedings against the Company lapse for any reason, the Company’s debt obligations of $110.2 million as at December 31, 2011, will become due and payable immediately. There can be no assurance that the amounts of cash that may be drawn down under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund day to day operations during the proceedings under the CCAA and the restructuring costs associated with operating under the CCAA. If the DIP Facility amounts are insufficient to meet liquidity requirements, the Company will have to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. In such circumstances, failure to secure necessary additional financing would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s continuing operations. 5 Table of Contents Risks relating to the arbitration While Crystallex believes that all the jurisdictional requirements under the rules governing the arbitration and under the Treaty have been met to enable the arbitral tribunal for its claim against Venezuela (the “Tribunal”) to exercise jurisdiction over Crystallex’s claims, Venezuela has argued that the Tribunal lacks jurisdiction. If the Tribunal found that it lacked jurisdiction, the arbitration could not proceed. Venezuela will likely raise defenses to one or more of Crystallex’s assertions of breaches of the Treaty, including its claims of (i) denial of fair and equitable treatment; (ii) denial of full protection and security; (iii) expropriation; and (iv) discrimination. Venezuela’s arguments are not yet known and it is possible that Venezuela will raise arguments that have not yet been anticipated by Crystallex. As a result, one or more of Crystallex’s claims may not succeed. In addition, Crystallex may not be successful in obtaining (i) an award ordering the restitution of its investment in the Las Cristinas Project and the granting of the Permit, and/or (ii) an award of compensation in the amount requested or at all. In certain limited circumstances an arbitral award may be set aside by the courts of the place of arbitration or enforcement of the award may be rejected by courts where enforcement might be sought. Venezuela is a respondent in several pending arbitrations filed with ICSID, some of which—like the Arbitration Request — assert claims in excess of US$ 1 billion. Not all countries have voluntarily complied with awards issued in investment treaty arbitrations. If Venezuela does not voluntarily comply, it may be necessary to enforce the award against Venezuela’s assets in accordance with the rules applicable to enforcement against sovereign assets in the jurisdictions where such enforcement is sought. It is possible that Venezuela might refuse to comply with the award and attempt to transfer assets out of jurisdictions where enforcement is possible or otherwise seek to obstruct enforcement. In addition, Crystallex may have to compete with other award-creditors when seeking to enforce its award against Venezuela’s assets. There is no established bankruptcy-like mechanism that would ensure pro rata distribution of a foreign sovereign’s available assets in any jurisdiction among creditors, and there is a risk that those creditors could attach those assets before Crystallex is able to. Furthermore, depending on the country in which execution is attempted, differences in national rules on sovereign immunity, and on the availability of assets to satisfy the award may prevent Crystallex from collecting on its award. Political and economic uncertainty in Venezuela The Company’s international arbitration claim is against Venezuela. Should the Company be successful in winning an award of compensation to be paid by Venezuela, the Company cannot provide any assurance that it would be able to collect an award of compensation which would materially impact the Company. Should Crystallex obtain the restitution of the MOC and the grant of the Permit to allow development activities at Las Cristinas pursuant to an arbitral award, then the Company may face a number of political, economic and regulatory risks in Venezuela. Environmental regulation and liability The Company is no longer engaged in operating activities at its former properties near El Callao in Venezuela and has transferred ownership of the Revemin processing facility and El Callao mining concessions to the Government of Venezuela. The Company has environmental reclamation obligations related to its previous mining and processing operations on the El Callao concessions. The scope of the reclamation work required to be undertaken by the Company on the El Callao concessions has yet to be fully determined and may not be reliably estimated at this time, as the Government of Venezuela may continue with mining or other activities on the concessions. The reclamation activities are subject to laws and regulations controlling the environment. Environmental legislation may change and result in greater reclamation costs than the Company currently estimates. In general, environmental legislation is evolving towards stricter standards, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their directors, officers and employees. Future environmental legislation could cause additional expense the extent of which cannot be predicted. 6 Table of Contents The Company does not maintain environmental liability insurance. The Company has adopted high standards of environmental compliance; however, failure adhering with or unanticipated changes in Venezuela’s laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment could adversely affect the Company. Currency fluctuations The Company’s functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A significant portion of the Company’s operating and capital expenditures are in Venezuelan BsF and Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and both the BsF and Canadian dollar, either favourable or unfavourable, could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. The Company expects that it will continue to incur losses and there can be no assurance that the Company will become profitable in the near future. Potential dilution As at December 5, 2012, the Company had outstanding options to purchase 19,205,900 Common Shares and warrants to purchase 28,695,000 Common Shares. The issue of Common Shares upon the exercise of the options and warrants will dilute the ownership interest of the Company’s current shareholders. The Company may also issue additional stock options and warrants or additional Common Shares from time to time in the future. Furthermore, in connection with any successful future financings, any refinancing of the Notes or in connection with the restructuring of the Notes, the Company may issue additional securities. The Company has also agreed to grant to Tenor, pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the right to acquire shares of the Company which may be converted, from and after September 1, 2012, into such number of Common Shares which would be equal to 35% of the then issued and outstanding Common Shares. As a result, the ownership interest of the Company’s current shareholders could be significantly diluted. Common share price volatility The Company’s Common Shares were delisted in 2011 from the Exchange and in 2012 from the TSX and currently trade on the OTC Markets. The market price of the Common Shares could fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors in addition to those listed in this document, including: • the result of the Company’s efforts in the arbitration proceedings; • the outcome of the Company’s CCAA proceedings; • the public’s reaction to the Company’s press releases, other public announcements and the Company’s filings with the various securities regulatory authorities; • changes in general economic conditions; • the arrival or departure of key personnel; • significant global economic events; and • outcomes of litigation. In addition, the market price of the Common Shares are affected by many variables not directly related to the Company’s success and, therefore, not within the Company’s control, including other developments that affect the market for all resource sector shares, the breadth of the public market for the Common Shares and the attractiveness of alternative investments. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of Common Shares have historically made the Company’s share price volatile and suggests that the Company’s share price will continue to be volatile in the future. 7 Table of Contents Dependence on key employees The Company’s business is dependent on retaining the services of a small number of key management personnel and directors, in particular those who possess important historical knowledge of Las Cristinas relevant to the arbitration claim. The loss of key personnel and/or directors could have a material adverse effect on future operations of the Company. Credit and market risks The Company may enter into financial agreements (financial instruments) with major international banks, other international financial institutions and other accredited third parties. Financial instruments, which subject the Company to market risk and concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and accounts receivable. Market risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument might be adversely affected by a change in interest rates or currency exchange rates. The Company manages the market risk associated with commodity prices by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken. Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of a contract. The Company limits the amount of credit exposure in cash and cash equivalents by placing these in high quality securities issued by government agencies and financial institutions. The Company’s cash equivalents include deposits with Schedule A Canadian banks, denominated in U.S. dollars. Enforcement by investors of civil liabilities The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws may be adversely affected by the fact that the Company is organized under the laws of Canada, that most of its officers are residents of Canada, and that a substantial portion of the Company’s assets and the assets of a majority of the Company’s directors and officers named in this Form 20F are located outside the United States. Furthermore, it may not be possible to enforce against the Company or its directors or officers, judgments obtained in U.S. courts. The Company believes that a monetary judgment of a Canadian court predicated solely on the Canadian civil liability regime would likely be enforceable in the U.S. if the Canadian court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a U.S. court for such purposes, but this area of the law is not free from doubt and there is a risk that such a judgment will not be enforceable. There is a general stay of proceedings against the company, and its directors and officers while under CCAA protection. No payment of cash dividends The Company intends to retain cash to finance its arbitration claim and for working capital. The Company does not intend to declare or pay cash dividends at present and it has not done so since its inception. In the event that the Company decides to declare and pay cash dividends in the future, such a decision will be made entirely in the discretion of the Board and shall be dependent on factors such as earnings, capital requirements, future business opportunities, financing agreements and market conditions for the Company’s shares. Substantial Number of Authorized but Unissued Shares Crystallex has an unlimited number of Common Shares which may be issued by the Board without further action or approval of Crystallex’s shareholders. While the Board is required to fulfill its fiduciary obligations in connection with the issuance of such shares, the shares may be issued in transactions with which not all shareholders agree, and the issuance of such shares will cause dilution to the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. 8 Table of Contents 