Item 1A. Risk Factors The United States and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced significant price and credit availability volatility, dislocations, and disruptions. These events have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially, the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably, and have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business, including our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make future acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events may also make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our equity securities and could reduce our net income by increasing our interest expense and other costs of capital. The disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. The diminished availability of credit and other capital is also affecting end users in the key markets we serve including the building markets. There is continued uncertainty as to sustainability of the recovery of the worldwide capital and credit markets and the impact this period of volatility will continue to have on our key end markets. The effects of existing and any new U.S. Government measures to aid economic recovery including economic stimulus legislation continue to be unknown. Further volatility in the worldwide capital and credit markets may continue to significantly impact the key end markets we serve and could result in further reductions in sales volumes, increased credit and collection risks, and may have other adverse effects on our business. The residential building as well as the repair and remodel industries account for a significant portion of our sales, and any further reduction in demand from these industries is likely to adversely affect our profitability and cash flow further. The residential building market in North America experienced a significant decline in volume beginning in 2008 and continuing throughout 2009 and 2010 as shown below: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 Residential Housing Starts 586,000 554,000 900,000 1,342,000 Similar trends were noted in the other end markets we serve, including the repair and remodel industry. Our largest customers are retail home improvement centers and wholesale distributors who serve our key end markets. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, The Home Depot accounted for approximately 15%, 16%, and 10% of our net sales, respectively. A loss of sales to the residential building industry, or the repair and remodel industry, or to the specified customer, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flow as it did throughout the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our sales of building products decreased during the past two years due to a decline in demand in the new build residential building and repair and remodel industries. This reduction in volume caused a decrease in our operating margins compared to prior years. This industry is cyclical, with product demand based on numerous factors such as availability of credit, interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, and other factors beyond our control. The current poor economic conditions have negatively affected all of these factors. Further downturns in demand from the residential building and repair and remodel industries, or any of the other industries we serve, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these markets could continue to adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy, or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We have total indebtedness of $207.2 million as of December 31, 2010. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness and certain other information as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions): As of December 31, 2010 Senior subordinated notes $ 202.0 Other 5.2 Total debt $ 207.2 Shareholders’ equity $ 440.9 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1) 0.5 x (1) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of income before taxes minus net undistributed equity earnings minus capitalized interest plus intangible asset impairment charges plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense (including amortization of debt issuance costs), capitalized interest, and the portion of operating rental expense that management believes is representative of the interest component of rent expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from profitability and other sources to service all of our indebtedness and we could be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated July 24, 2009 (the Senior Credit Agreement) and our indenture agreement for our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and the use of proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our Senior Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Relative to current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. The terms of the indenture for our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional debt. Additionally, our Senior Credit Agreement provides us with a 9 Table of Contents revolving credit facility commitment of $200 million with borrowings limited to the lesser of (i) $200 million or (ii) a borrowing base determined by reference to the trade receivables, inventories, and property, plant, and equipment of our significant domestic subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, we had $85.8 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. Under the terms of our Senior Credit Agreement, we are required to repay all amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility by August 30, 2012. Our principal operating subsidiary, Gibraltar Steel Corporation of New York, is also a borrower under our Senior Credit Agreement and the full amount of our commitments under the revolving credit facility may be borrowed by that subsidiary. In addition, our substantial degree of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations have been and are expected to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and may not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; and • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations. Our Senior Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem, or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments including acquisitions, and capital expenditures; • incur debt that is senior to our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes but junior to our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Agreement and other senior indebtedness; • incur liens; • restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Senior Credit Agreement include a single financial covenant that requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25 to 1.00. Our ability to meet the restrictive covenants in the future can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet the financial ratio. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Senior Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Senior Credit Agreement, we would attempt to receive a waiver from our lenders, which could result in us incurring additional financing fees that would be costly and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. If a waiver was not provided, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If such event of default and election occurs, 10 Table of Contents the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement would be entitled to be paid before current Senior Subordinated 8% Note holders receive any payment under our notes. In addition, if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all our assets as collateral under our Senior Credit Agreement. If the lenders under our Senior Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay debt outstanding under our Senior Credit Agreement and our other indebtedness, including our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. An acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement would result in an event of default under our Senior Subordinated 8% Notes which would then entitle the holders thereof to accelerate and demand repayment of the notes as well. Even if we are able to obtain new financing to pay the amounts due under the Senior Credit Agreement and Senior Subordinate 8% Notes, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. A breach of any of our covenants would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flow. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase on any amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement, and our net income would decrease. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn or funded on December 31, 2010, as applicable, each 25 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in annual interest expense on debt outstanding under our Senior Credit Agreement. We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of those customers would adversely affect us. Some of our customers are material to our business and results of operations. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 37%, 37%, and 30% of our net sales, respectively. Our percentage of net sales to our major customers may increase if we are successful in pursuing our strategy of broadening the range of products we sell to existing customers. In such an event, or in the event of any consolidation in the markets we serve, including retailers selling building products, our net sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of our largest customers. These customers are also able to exert pricing and other influences on us, requiring us to market, deliver, and promote our products in a manner that may be more costly to us. Moreover, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, although our customers periodically provide indications of their product needs and purchases, they generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss, bankruptcy, or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flow. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on quality, price, raw materials and inventory availability, and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. We compete in building markets with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have better established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services or enhanced products at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow and cause us to lose market share. 11 Table of Contents Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. Our principal raw materials are steel, aluminum, and resins, which we purchase from multiple primary suppliers. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs. Our other significant raw materials, including aluminum and resins, are also subject to price volatility. Global consolidation of the primary steel producers and increased demand from other nations such as China and India continue to put upward pressure on market prices for steel and other commodities. Additionally, we are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon expected buying practices and market conditions. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will impact how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the profitability of our business and resulting cash flows could be adversely affected. In the event of rapidly decreasing raw material prices, we may be left to absorb the cost of higher cost inventory as customers receive reduced pricing related to decreases in raw material costs. To the extent we are unable to match our costs to purchase raw materials to prices given to our customers, the profitability of our business and resulting cash flows could be adversely affected. Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our primary suppliers. If, for any reason, our primary suppliers of steel, aluminum, or other metals should curtail or discontinue deliveries to us in quantities we need and at prices that are competitive, our business could suffer. The number of available suppliers has been reduced in recent years due to industry consolidation and bankruptcies affecting steel and metal producers and this trend may continue. Our top ten suppliers accounted for 35% of our purchases during 2010. We could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier or several suppliers. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. If, in the future, we were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which would have a material adverse effect on our results, profitability, and cash flow. Increases in energy and freight prices would increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. In particular, our plants use considerable electricity. Our operating costs increase if energy costs rise. Although we do not believe we have experienced materially higher energy costs as a result of new or more stringent environmental regulations of our energy suppliers, such regulations could increase the cost of generating energy that is passed on to us. During periods of higher freight and energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy prices may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. We may not be able to identify, manage, and integrate future acquisitions successfully, and if we are unable to do so, we are unlikely to sustain growth in net sales or profitability and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness may decline. Historically, we have grown through a combination of internal growth plus external expansion through acquisitions. Although we intend to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future, we cannot provide any 12 Table of Contents assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if we do, that we will be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition, or integrate the acquired business profitably into our existing operations. Integration of an acquired business could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations and could result in liabilities that were not anticipated. Further, failure to integrate any acquisition successfully may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Consummating an acquisition could require us to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional debt financing would increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow otherwise available to reinvest in our business and neither debt nor equity financing may be available on satisfactory terms when required. We are subject to information system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations. We are dependent upon information technology for the distribution of information internally and also to our customers and suppliers. This information technology is subject to theft, damage, or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to malicious computer code, such as worms, viruses and Trojan horses, security breaches, and defects in design. The implementation of new information technology solutions could lead to interruptions of information flow internally and to our customers and suppliers while the implementation project is being completed. We implemented new systems in 2010 and 2009 at several business units. Various measures have been taken to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions, but a security breach, system failure, or failure to implement new systems properly could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant influence in matters requiring a stockholder vote and could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of the Company. Approximately 10% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable under options and similar compensatory instruments granted which are exercisable, or which are vested or will vest within 60 days, are owned by Brian J. Lipke, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Eric R. Lipke, Neil E. Lipke, Meredith A. Lipke, and Curtis W. Lipke, all of whom are siblings, and certain trusts for the benefit of each of them. As a result, the Lipke family has influence over all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Through their concentration of voting power, the Lipke family could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our Company. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Lipke family may be influenced by interests that conflict with the interests of other shareholders. In addition, the Lipke family may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in the Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to our other shareholders. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain, and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Brian J. Lipke, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Henning N. Kornbrekke, our President and Chief Operating Officer. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations of, environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Failure to maintain or 13 Table of Contents achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain facilities of ours have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled, and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of or at facilities we divested, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits and cash flow. We may be held strictly liable for the contamination of these sites, and the amount of that liability could be material. Under the “joint and several” liability principle of certain environmental laws, we may be held liable for all remediation costs at a particular site, even with respect to contamination for which we are not responsible. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including without limitation new or more stringent regulations affecting greenhouse gas emissions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Labor disruptions at any of our major customers or at our own manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Many of our customers have unionized workforces and could experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs, and strikes. A labor disruption at one or more of our customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause the customer to halt or limit orders for our products and services. Any such reduction in the demand for our products and services would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flow. In addition, approximately 19% of our own employees are represented by unions through various collective bargaining agreements that are scheduled to expire between March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2013. It is likely that our unionized employees will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of these agreements, and we may be unable to negotiate new agreements without labor disruption. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of our facilities. If any labor disruption were to occur at our facilities, we could lose sales due to interruptions in production and could incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flow. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow. Our net sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters primarily due to reduced activity in the building industry due to colder, more inclement weather. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of large customer orders. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may not be able to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance. A default under any of our indebtedness could prevent us from borrowing additional funds and limit our ability to pay interest or principal, and allow our senior secured lenders to enforce their liens against our personal property. Economic, political, and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our financial results. Although the majority of our business activity takes place in the United States, we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in foreign countries, and are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented approximately 15% of our consolidated net sales during the year ended December 31, 2010. We have facilities in Canada, England, Germany, and Poland. We believe that our business activities outside of the United States involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States or in governmental policies, laws or regulations, terrorist activity that may cause social disruption, logistical and communications challenges, costs of complying with a variety of laws and regulations, difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, deterioration of foreign 14 Table of Contents economic conditions, currency rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions, differing local business practices and cultural considerations, restrictions on imports and exports or sources of supply, and changes in duties or taxes. Adverse changes in any of these risks could adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flows. Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers, could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Business disruptions, including increased costs for or interruptions in the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards, from casualty events, such as fires or material equipment breakdown, from acts of terrorism, from pandemic disease, from labor disruptions, or from other events such as required maintenance shutdowns, could cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers. Such interruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 