Item 1a. Risk Factors Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We are significantly leveraged with total indebtedness of approximately $466.3 million as of December 31, 2005. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness and certain other information as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) as of December 31, 2005 Senior credit facility: Revolving credit facility $ 25.0 Institutional term loan 230.0 Senior subordinated notes (1) 204.0 Other 7.3 Total debt $466.3 Shareholders’ equity 494.0 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (2) 3.4 x (1) excludes the effect of the $3.4 million discount from face value. (2) for purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of income before taxes minus net undistributed equity earnings minus capitalized interest plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense (including amortization of debt issuance costs), capitalized interest and the portion of operating rental expense that management believes is representative of the interest component of rent expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and we could be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure 12 or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facility and our indenture agreement for our senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our senior credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture for our senior subordinated notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Additionally, our senior credit facility provides commitments of up to $530.0 million in the aggregate, including a revolving credit facility of up to $300.0 million. At December 31, 2005, outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility were $25.0 million, $11.9 million of letters of credit were outstanding and $263.1 million was available to be borrowed. In addition, our senior credit facility permits us to enter into agreements with the administrative agents and any willing lenders to increase the revolving commitments of those lenders or add new term loans from those lenders up to an aggregate amount of $75.0 million without obtaining the consent of the majority lenders. Our principal operating subsidiary, Gibraltar Steel Corporation of New York, is also a borrower under our senior credit facility and the full amount of our commitments under the revolving credit facility may be borrowed by that subsidiary. In addition our substantial degree of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations are dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and are not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior credit facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. Our principal raw material is flat-rolled steel, which we purchase from multiple primary steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is very cyclical, and at times pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors 13 beyond our control, including general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs. Other significant raw materials we use include aluminum and plastics, which are also subject to volatility. Demand for steel increased during 2004, for example, especially in China, and steel producers experienced a shortage of steel scrap and coke, two key materials used in the manufacture of steel. The shortage of these raw materials resulted in significant increases in both steel demand and steel pricing in 2004 and early 2005. To hedge against further price increases and potential shortages, we purchased significant quantities of steel. When steel prices began to decline in mid-2005, our gross profit margins suffered a decline from the corresponding period in 2004 partly because we have been selling inventory produced with this high-cost steel, and, contrary to 2004, we are operating under pricing pressure from our customers in our Processed Metal Products segment. We are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices and market conditions. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will impact how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the profitability of our business could be adversely affected. The building and construction industry and the automotive industry account for a significant portion of our sales, and reduced demand from these industries is likely to adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. Net sales of our Building Products segment, which sells products for use in the building and construction industry, accounted for approximately 51.0%, 48.9% and 52.2% of our net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. These sales were made primarily to retail home centers and wholesale distributors. We also sell some products in our Processed Metal Products segment to customers in the building and construction industry. For 2005, The Home Depot accounted for approximately 12.1% of our gross sales. A loss of sales to the building and construction industry, or to the specified customer, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. For example, our sales of processed steel to steel service centers decreased in 2003 due to a decline in demand in the commercial building industry, causing a decrease in net sales in our Processed Metal Products segment and contributing to a decrease in our operating margins in that segment compared to the prior year. This industry is cyclical, with product demand based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. We estimate that net sales of our products for use in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 25%, 26% and 22% of our net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Such sales include sales directly to auto manufacturers and to manufacturers of automotive components and parts. The automotive industry experiences significant fluctuations in demand based on numerous factors such as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. In 2003, for example, our sales of processed steel products to the Big Three automotive manufacturers decreased in comparison to 2002, causing a decrease in net sales in our Processed Metal Products segment and contributing to a decrease in our operating margins in that segment compared to the prior year. The domestic auto industry is currently experiencing a difficult operating environment that may result in lower levels of vehicle production and decreased demand for our products. Downturns in demand from the building and construction industry, the automotive industry or any of the other industries we serve, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We may not be able to identify, manage and integrate future acquisitions successfully, and if we are unable to do so, we are unlikely to sustain our historical growth rates and our ability to repay the notes may decline. 14 Historically, we have grown through a combination of internal growth and external expansion through acquisitions. Although we intend to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if we do, that we will be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business effectively and profitably into our existing operations. Integration of an acquired business could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations and could result in contingent liabilities that were not anticipated. Further, failure to integrate successfully any acquisition (including our acquisition of AMICO, our largest acquisition to date) may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to repay the notes. Consummating an acquisition could require us to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional debt financing would increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flows otherwise available to reinvest in our business. Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our primary suppliers. If, for any reason, our primary suppliers of flat-rolled steel, aluminum or other metals should curtail or discontinue deliveries to us in quantities we need and at prices that are competitive, our business could suffer. The number of available suppliers has been reduced in recent years due to industry consolidation and bankruptcies affecting steel and metal producers, and this trend may continue. Our top ten suppliers accounted for 44.7% of our purchases during the first seven months of 2005. We could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier or several suppliers. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. In early 2004, we experienced temporary supply shortages in the aluminum market. If, in the future, we were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which would have a material adverse effect on our results, profitability and cash flow. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. In particular, our building products and processed metal products plants use considerable electricity, and our thermal processing facilities depend on natural gas. Our operating costs increase if energy costs rise, which occurred in 2003 and 2005. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. For example, we estimate that increases in energy costs have increased our cost of sales and, to a lesser degree, selling, general and administrative expense by approximately $3.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004. We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our gross sales, and the loss of those customers would adversely affect us. Some of our customers are material to our business and results of operations. In 2005, The Home Depot, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 12.1% of our gross sales, and ten of our largest customers accounted for approximately 34.1% of our gross sales. Our percentage of gross sales to The Home Depot and some of our other major customers may increase if we are successful in pursuing our strategy of broadening the range of products we sell to existing customers. In such an event, or in the event of any consolidation in the industries we serve, including the retail and automotive industries, our gross sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of our top customers. These customers are also able to exert pricing and other influence on us, requiring us to market, deliver and promote our products in a manner that may be more costly to us. Moreover, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, as is typical in the industries we serve. As a result, although our customers periodically provide indications of their 15 product needs and purchases, they generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit and net income. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price, raw materials and inventory availability and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. Our competition in the markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have more established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income and cash flow. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a stockholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company. Approximately 18.4% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable under options granted which are exercisable within 60 days, are owned by Brian J. Lipke, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of our Company and Eric R. Lipke, Neil E. Lipke, Meredith A. Lipke and Curtis W. Lipke, all of whom are siblings, and certain trusts for the benefit of each of them. As a result, the Lipke family has significant influence over all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Through their concentration of voting power, the Lipke family could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our Company. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Lipke family may be influenced by interests that conflict with other stakeholders. In addition, the Lipke family may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in the Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to our other stakeholders. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Brian J. Lipke, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations of, environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of or at facilities we divested, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits and cash flow. We may be held strictly liable for the contamination of these sites, and the 16 amount of that liability could be material. Under the “joint and several” liability principle of certain environmental laws, we may be held liable for all remediation costs at a particular site. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Labor disruptions at any of our major customers or at our own manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Many of our important customers, including in the automotive industry, have heavily unionized workforces and have sometimes experienced significant labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs and strikes. A labor disruption at one or more of our major customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause the customer to halt or limit orders for our products and services. Any such reduction in the demand for our products and services would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, approximately 11.8% of our own employees are represented by unions through various collective bargaining agreements that expire between June 2006 and February 2009. It is likely that our employees will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of these agreements, and we may be unable to negotiate new agreements without labor disruption. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of our facilities. If any labor disruption were to occur at our facilities, we could lose sales due to interruptions in production and could incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow. Our net sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters primarily due to reduced activity in the building and construction industry due to weather, as well as customer plant shutdowns in the automotive industry due to holidays and model changeovers. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of large customer orders. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may not be able to service our indebtedness. A default under any of our indebtedness would prevent us from borrowing additional funds and limit our ability to pay interest or principal, and allow our senior secured lenders to enforce their liens against our personal property. We have not yet fully evaluated the internal control over financial reporting of AMICO and its subsidiaries, and any deficiencies in AMICO’s internal controls that we may find would require us to spend resources to correct those deficiencies and could adversely affect market confidence in our reported consolidated financial information and the market price of our securities. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at the Company, including all our subsidiaries, is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. We are currently subject to Sections 302, 404 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the assessment of our management included in our annual report on Form 10-K. However, because AMICO was a private company when we acquired it, AMICO was not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and we are continuing to evaluate the strength of AMICO’s internal control over financial reporting. As an independent company, AMICO and its subsidiaries did not operate under a fully documented system for accounting and internal control over financial reporting, and we will need to document that control structure and may need to improve it. If we identify any significant deficiencies in AMICO’s internal control over financial reporting in the course of the integration process, we will be required to spend time and money to remedy those deficiencies. If we are unable to sufficiently integrate AMICO’s control structure into our structure or correct any deficiencies we identify in a timely manner, we may conclude that these circumstances constitute a material weakness in the internal control over financial reporting of our Company. If we were to reach such a conclusion, our management and our 17 independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Investors could lose confidence in our reported consolidated financial information as a result, and the market price of our securities. Our management and auditors have identified significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and future significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. During our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, we and our auditors identified significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board defines a “significant deficiency” as a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. These significant deficiencies include, but are not limited to, two deficiencies identified by our former independent registered public accountants (our “former auditors”) in the course of their integrated audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and of our internal control over financial reporting: • Calculation of reserves for self-insured worker’s compensation liabilities. During the course of their integrated audit of our financial statements and our internal controls, our former auditors brought to our attention the need to include a reserve for the ultimate developed losses of our self-insured workers’ compensation liability. A reserve for the ultimate developed losses is an estimate of anticipated losses based upon losses incurred to date. We and our former auditors concluded that the failure to include an appropriate measure of anticipated losses in our calculation constituted a significant deficiency. We recorded an adjustment of $1.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 in connection with the establishment of such a reserve, and we now consider such anticipated losses in calculating our self-insured workers’ compensation liabilities in each period. • Third-party payroll processor report. We were unable to obtain from the third party that processes our payroll a Type 2 report under Statement of Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 70, Reports on the Processing of Transactions with Service Organizations, that covered the processor’s location where our payroll was processed. SAS No. 70 provides procedures for the issuance of a report by the auditor of a service organization, such as our payroll processor, for use in connection with an audit of, and an evaluation of the internal controls of, the user organization. We did not have adequate internal controls in place to compensate for the failure to obtain such a report that would prevent or detect a misstatement that was more than inconsequential. Our third-party processor provided a SAS No. 70 Type 2 Report for 2005 fiscal year. In addition, we have identified other significant deficiencies, but we believe we have remedied all significant deficiencies of which we are aware. However, if the remedial actions we have taken were insufficient to address these deficiencies or if additional significant deficiencies or other conditions relating to our internal control over financial reporting are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of our periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control deficiencies such as these could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported consolidated financial information, and the market price of the notes could decline. We are also in the process of hiring individuals to fill accounting staff vacancies and evaluating whether additional resources are warranted to improve our internal control environment, particularly with the AMICO acquisition. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations. 18 Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • incur debt that is senior to our Senior Subordinated notes but junior to our senior credit facilities and other senior indebtedness; • incur liens; • restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility (which includes our revolving credit facility and our $230.0 million term loan facility) require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If such event of default and election occur, the lenders under our senior credit facility would be entitled to be paid before current note holders receive any payment under our notes. In addition, if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all our assets as collateral under our senior credit facility. If the lenders under our senior credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facility and our other indebtedness, including our senior subordinated notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our senior credit facility, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Assuming all revolving loans and the term loan were fully drawn or funded on December 31, 2005, as applicable, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $1.3 million change in annual interest expense on our senior credit facility. 19 Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None 