ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. RISKS RELATING TO THE COLONIAL MERGERWe have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger. We have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger and integrating Colonial’s business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with ours. There are a large number of systems that are in the process of being integrated, including property management, revenue management, resident payment, credit screening, lease administration, website content management, purchasing, accounting, payroll, fixed assets and financial reporting. Moreover, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these integration expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. As a result, expenses associated with the Merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses. We may be unable to integrate Colonial’s businesses with ours successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe.Because Colonial was a public company, we expect to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting Colonial’s public company platform and the leveraging of our technology and systems. These savings are expected to be realized upon full integration, which is expected to occur over the 18-month period following the closing of the Merger. However, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Colonial with our business practices and operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following:•the inability to successfully combine the businesses of Colonial with ours in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the Merger, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the Merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; •the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from the two companies; •the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; •potential unknown or unforeseen liabilities, increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with Colonial, Colonial LP or the Merger; and •performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating Colonial’s operations with our operations. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or could otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may be unable to retain key employees as a result of the Merger. Our success will depend in part upon the ability to retain key former employees of Colonial, as well as our key employees. Key employees may depart because of, among other things, issues relating to the combination of the two companies, uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the Merger. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent as in the past. 13The Merger resulted in changes to MAA's board of directors that may affect our strategy going forward. The composition of MAA's board of directors changed as a result of the Merger. MAA's board of directors now consists of twelve members, including all seven directors from MAA's board of directors prior to the Merger and five directors who were members of the Colonial board of trustees prior to the Merger. This new composition of MAA's board of directors may affect our business strategy and operations going forward. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the Merger. We have expanded our operations as a result of the Merger and intend to continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions of properties, some of which may involve complex challenges. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage the integration of the Colonial operations and our expansion opportunities, each of which may pose substantial challenges for us to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, and upon our ability to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. There is no assurance that our expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits from any future acquisitions we may complete. We may incur adverse tax consequences if Colonial failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and if that occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Prior to the Merger, Colonial operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. As discussed in Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 16, 2013, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and Colonial’s qualification as a REIT prior to the Merger was generally subject to the same requirements, risks and uncertainties as described in such Exhibit 99.1. Moreover, the complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury Regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership (such as we do and Colonial did prior to the Merger). The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a REIT’s control may affect its ability to qualify as a REIT. If Colonial is determined to have lost its REIT status at any time prior to the Merger, MAA will face serious tax consequences and material tax liabilities. Because MAA owns no material assets other than its ownership interest in the Operating Partnership, the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries would likely be required to provide cash to MAA to satisfy any such tax liabilities, which would substantially reduce the Operating Partnership’s available cash, including cash available to pay its indebtedness or make distributions to its limited partners or MAA's shareholders because, among other things:•MAA would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on Colonial’s prior net income at regular corporate rates for the years it did not qualify for taxation as a REIT (and, for such years, Colonial would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its former shareholders in computing its taxable income); •Colonial could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes for such periods; and •Unless Colonial is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither it nor any “successor” company could elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. MAA is liable for any taxes payable by Colonial for any periods prior to the Merger. In addition, if Colonial failed to qualify as a REIT but we nonetheless qualified as a REIT, in the event of a taxable disposition of a former Colonial asset during the ten years following the Merger we would be subject to corporate tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of the Merger. In addition, under the “investment company” rules under Section 368 of the Code, if both MAA and Colonial were “investment companies” under such rules, the failure of either Colonial or us to have qualified as a REIT could cause the Merger to be taxable to us and our shareholders. As a result of all these factors, Colonial’s failure to have qualified as a REIT could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT and require our Operating Partnership to provide material amounts of cash to us to satisfy our additional tax liabilities and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or distributions to our shareholders.14RISKS RELATED TO OUR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS AND OUR OPERATIONS Economic slowdown in the United States and downturns in the housing and real estate markets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.There have been significant declines in economic growth, both in the United States and globally. Both the real estate industry and the broader United States economy have experienced unfavorable conditions, which adversely affected our business. Factors such as weakened economies and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and job losses, price volatility, and/or dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, could be adversely affected by increases in supply and deterioration in multifamily markets and is partially dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, downturns in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. With regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and depress rental rates in certain markets. When we experience a downturn, we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak over extended periods of time or deteriorate significantly, our ability to lease our properties or our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may weaken, which would adversely affect our revenues. Failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders and unitholders. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. Funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. Such events or conditions could include:•competition from other apartment communities;•overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units;•conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use;•weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing;•increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates;•inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms;•failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease up as anticipated;•changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance;•changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing;•withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;•an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism;•changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and•the relative illiquidity of real estate investments.At times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. While we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. Any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities.15Our operations are concentrated in the Sunbelt Region of the United States, in particular the state of Texas; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. Approximately 39.5% of our portfolio is centered in our top five markets: Dallas, Texas; Atlanta, Georgia; Austin, Texas; Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina; and Charlotte, North Carolina. Our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. In particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. To the extent the aforementioned general economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected. Substantial competition among multifamily communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our rental revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. There are numerous other multifamily communities and real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. The number of competitive multifamily communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent the apartments and the rents charged, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. The activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt.We may be adversely affected by new laws and regulations. The current United States administration and Congress have enacted, or called for consideration of, proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to health care, financial regulation reform, climate control, executive compensation and others. We believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty what level of impact specific proposals could have on us.Certain rulemaking and administrative efforts that may have an impact on us focus principally on the areas perceived as contributing to the global financial crisis and the continuing economic downturn. These initiatives have created uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses. The federal legislative response in this area culminated in the enactment on July 21, 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities; thus, the impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals that are proposed or pending in the United States Congress, may limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework in which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable.Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in particular, including certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, have created uncertainty for public companies like ours and could significantly increase the costs and risks associated with accessing the United States public markets. Because we are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with these evolving standards for public companies. We intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities.Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation.We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants and employees. While we have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any breach of our data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs 16(including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. We have selectively acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: •we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; •even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; •even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; •we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; •when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; and •we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability.We are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. We periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. These conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. We are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: •a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the Code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales; and •federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities that we have owned for less than two years, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable.Environmental problems are possible and can be costly. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. In connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, 17therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. Our current policy is to obtain a Phase I environmental study on each property we seek to acquire, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. We cannot assure you, however, that the Phase I environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future communities will reveal: •all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; •that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us;•that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such communities; or •that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. There have been a number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. Insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. We have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. To the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage, health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. Changes in the system for establishing United States accounting standards may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations. Accounting for public companies in the United States has historically been conducted in accordance with GAAP. GAAP is established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the SEC as authoritative for publicly held companies. The International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, is a London-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. IFRS generally reflects accounting practices that prevail in Europe and in developed nations around the world. IFRS differs in material respects from GAAP. Among other things, IFRS has historically relied more on “fair value” models of accounting for assets and liabilities than GAAP. “Fair value” models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to GAAP, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and liability valuation.It is unclear at this time if or how the SEC will transition from GAAP to IFRS. Switching to a new method of accounting and adopting IFRS will be a complex undertaking. We may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of IFRS. Since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the magnitude of costs associated with this conversion is uncertain. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of IFRS on our financial position and results of operations. Such evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific IFRS standards that will be adopted. Until there is more certainty with respect to the IFRS standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to IFRS could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. We exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and 18ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results. As a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. Real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. If the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. We may experience increased costs arising from health care reform. In March 2010, the United States government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates extending through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. Therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, in some cases, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. Possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. In addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. The Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require us to modify our existing communities. These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. We cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial.Development and construction risks could impact our profitability.As of December 31, 2013, we had five development communities under construction totaling 1,461 units. We have completed 509 units for the development projects as of December 31, 2013. Our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks:•we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations;•yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma;•bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations;•we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities;•we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs;•occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; and•when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance.19RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND FINANCING ACTIVITIESOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, the amount of our total debt was approximately $3.47 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities.The degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: •we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; •we may be subject to prepayment penalties if we elect to repay our indebtedness prior to the stated maturity date; •debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; •we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; •we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; and •we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that indebtedness on our communities, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code. Rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. We have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We may incur additional debt in the future. We currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. The restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.47 billion. Our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to minimum net worth, interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, and total debt to capital, among others. In the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to 20be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. A change in United States government policy with regard to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could impact our financial condition. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of financing for multifamily real estate in the United States. We utilize loan programs sponsored by these entities as one source of capital to finance our growth and our operations. On February 11, 2011, the Obama Administration released a report to Congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We do not know when or if Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. As of December 31, 2013, 19% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2014 through 2018. In 2013, we decreased the indebtedness outstanding on our Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac credit facilities from $803.3 million on December 31, 2012 to $651.8 million on December 31, 2013. We added $799.2 million of unsecured senior notes, decreased borrowings under unsecured lines of credit by $23.0 million, and added an additional $400.0 million of unsecured term loans. A decision by the U.S. government to eliminate or downscale Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or to reduce government support for multifamily housing more generally may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multifamily communities and the value of multifamily residential real estate and, as a result, may adversely affect us and our growth and operations. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. From time-to-time we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. Hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. A downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have a significant amount of debt outstanding. We are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. In addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. We cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. If we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted.RISKS RELATED TO MAA'S ORGANIZATION AND OWNERSHIP OF ITS STOCK MAA's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. MAA's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its Board of Directors. The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the 21Code, owning 50% or more of its shares. If you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs, MAA:•will consider the transfer to be null and void;•will not reflect the transaction on its books;•may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;•will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares;•will not recognize any voting rights for those shares;•will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and•will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to MAA, or MAA will redeem the shares. If MAA redeems the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of:◦the principal price paid for the shares by the holder,◦a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock,◦the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and◦the maximum price allowed under Tennessee Greenmail Act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of MAA, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement).The redemption price may be paid, at MAA's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by MAA) issued by the Operating Partnership for each Excess Share being redeemed.If you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above:•you may lose your power to dispose of the shares;•you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and•you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases.Provisions of MAA's charter and Tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of MAA. Ownership LimitThe 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of MAA by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors.Preferred StockMAA's charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of MAA, even if a change in control were in MAA shareholders’ best interests. As of December 31, 2013, no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding.Tennessee Anti-Takeover StatutesAs a Tennessee corporation, MAA is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire MAA and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if MAA's acquisition would be in MAA shareholders’ best interests. 22Market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of MAA's common shares. The market price of shares of a REIT may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of MAA's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for MAA to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase MAA's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. This could cause the market price of MAA's common shares to go down. In addition, although MAA's common shares are listed on The New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, the daily trading volume of MAA's shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. As a result, MAA's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. Changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of MAA's common shares. We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, MAA's shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of MAA's common shares. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to MAA's shareholders. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of MAA's shares. The stock markets, including NYSE, on which MAA lists its common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of MAA's common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in MAA's common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of MAA's publicly traded securities are the following:•our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;•actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results;•changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;•publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts;•additions and departures of key personnel;•inability to access the capital markets;•strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;•the issuance of additional shares of MAA's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under MAA's at-the-market controlled equity offering programs;•the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to ours;•the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies);•an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for MAA's shares;•the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry;•speculation in the press or investment community;•actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds;•changes in accounting principles;•terrorist acts; and•general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources.23RISKS RELATED TO THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP'S ORGANIZATION AND OWNERSHIP OF OP UNITSThe Operating Partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the Operating Partnership's sole general partner, MAA, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of MAA.MAA may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, dissolve the Operating Partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding OP Units held by holders other than MAA or its affiliates, or Class A OP Units. The right of the holders of our Class A OP Units to vote on these transactions could limit MAA's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all of our unitholders and all shareholders of MAA.In certain circumstances, certain of the Operating Partnership's unitholders must approve the Operating Partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders.In certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the Operating Partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. The exercise of these approval rights by the Operating Partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the Operating Partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the Operating Partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of MAA.MAA, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the Operating Partnership's affairs.MAA, as the Operating Partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the Operating Partnership's affairs. MAA, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the Operating Partnership's unitholders. Also, MAA owns approximately 94.7% of the OP Units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of any matters submitted to the Operating Partnership's unitholders for approval.Market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of MAA's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the OP Units.The market price of shares of a REIT may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of MAA's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for MAA to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase MAA's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. This could cause the market price of MAA's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any OP Units, or if MAA so elects, the value of MAA's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such OP Units. In addition, although MAA's stock is listed on the NYSE, the daily trading volume of MAA's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. As a result, MAA's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares.Changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to MAA's results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of MAA's common stock, which may reduce the amount of cash available to the Operating Partnership to meet its obligations.As discussed above under “Risks Related to MAA’s Organization and Ownership of its Stock,” changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to MAA’s results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of MAA’s common stock. In addition, the Operating Partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause MAA to not have the funds to service its debt or to pay dividends to its shareholders. MAA’s failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce MAA’s ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the Operating Partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distributions to the Operating Partnership’s unitholders.24RISKS RELATED TO TAX LAWS Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. If MAA fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). In addition, unless MAA is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which MAA loses its qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to MAA’s shareholders. Furthermore, MAA would no longer be required to make distributions to its shareholders. Thus, MAA’s failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of its common stock. MAA believes that it is organized and qualified as a REIT, and MAA intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, MAA cannot assure you that it is qualified as a REIT, or that MAA will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within MAA’s control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification. Even if MAA qualifies as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that MAA does not distribute to its shareholders. In addition, MAA may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a REIT could not engage in directly through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, and will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS will not challenge the treatment of the Operating Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the Operating Partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. In addition, the treatment of the Operating Partnership as a corporation would cause MAA to fail to qualify as a REIT. See “Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders” above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None.