Item 1A. Risk Factors Future results and the market price for Gibraltar’s common shares are subject to numerous risks, many which are driven by factors that cannot be controlled or predicted. The following discussion, as well as other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “PART II — Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” describe certain business risks. Consideration should be given to the risk factors described below as well as those in the Safe Harbor Statement at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in conjunction with reviewing the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial in our operations. The global recession that began in 2008 adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business and our industries, as well as the industries and businesses of many of our customers and suppliers. The volatile domestic and global recessionary climate has had significant negative impacts on our business. The global recession, and the sluggish pace of the recovery, resulted in a significant decrease in customer demand, diminished availability of credit and other capital, throughout in all of our end markets. The impacts of slow and uneven recovery in customer demand in many of our markets and government measures to aid economic recovery, including various measures intended to provide stimulus to the economy in general or to certain industries, as well as the growing debt levels of the United States and other countries, especially in Europe, continue to be unknown. Although domestic credit markets have largely stabilized from the height of the financial crisis, the effects of the financial crisis continue to present additional risks to us, our customers and suppliers. In particular, there is no guarantee that the credit markets or liquidity will not once again be restricted. In addition, uncertainties in Europe regarding the financial sector and sovereign debt and the potential impact on banks in other regions of the world will continue to weigh on global and domestic growth. We are unable to predict the strength, pace or sustainability of the economic recovery or the effects of government intervention or debt levels. The construction market has shown signs of stabilizing. However, global economic conditions, particularly in Europe, remain fragile, and the possibility remains that the domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors of those economies that are key to our sales, may continue to be slow or could further deteriorate, which could result in a corresponding decrease in demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our amount of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We had total indebtedness of $214.0 million as of December 31, 2013. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness and certain other information as of December 31, 2013 (dollars in thousands): Senior subordinated notes $ 210,000 Other debt 4,007 Total debt $ 214,007 Shareholders’ equity $ 471,749 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges1 1.90x 1 For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of income before taxes minus capitalized interest plus intangible asset impairment charges plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense (including amortization of debt issuance costs), capitalized interest, the portion of operating rental expense that management believes is representative of the interest component of rent expense, and the interest on uncertain tax positions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating results and other sources to service all of our indebtedness, including the 6.25% Senior Subordinated Notes (6.25% Notes), and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements, which may not be successful. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to make scheduled debt service payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility and the indenture that governs the 6.25% Notes restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under the revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Relative to current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, including debt under our revolving credit facility. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. On January 31, 2013, the Company issued $210.0 million of 6.25% Notes due February 1, 2021. We also have a Senior Credit Agreement that provides the Company with a revolving credit facility commitment up to $200 million with borrowings limited to the lesser of (i) $200 million or (ii) a borrowing base determined by reference to the trade receivables, inventories, and property, plant, and equipment of our significant domestic subsidiaries. We had no borrowings during 2013, and as of December 31, 2013, we had $102.8 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. Under the terms of our Senior Credit Agreement, we are required to repay all amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility by October 10, 2016. Our principal operating subsidiary, Gibraltar Steel Corporation of New York, is also a borrower under the Senior Credit Agreement and the full amount of our commitments under the revolving credit facility may be borrowed by that subsidiary. Our substantial degree of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations have been and are expected to be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness and may not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Senior Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; and • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which have less debt. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations. The Senior Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our 6.25% Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem, or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments including acquisitions, and capital expenditures; 11 Table of Contents • incur debt that is senior to our 6.25% Notes but junior to our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Agreement and other senior indebtedness; • incur liens; • receive distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Senior Credit Agreement include a single financial covenant that requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25 to 1.00. Our ability to meet the restrictive covenants in the future can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet this financial ratio. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Senior Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Senior Credit Agreement, we would attempt to receive a waiver from our lenders, which could result in us incurring additional financing fees that would be costly and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. If a waiver was not provided, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If such event of default and election occurs, the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement would be entitled to be paid before current 6.25% Note holders receive any payment under our notes. In addition, if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all our assets as collateral under the Senior Credit Agreement. If the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay debt outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement and our other indebtedness, including our 6.25% Notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. An acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement would result in an event of default under the 6.25% Notes which would then entitle the holders thereof to accelerate and demand repayment of the 6.25% Notes as well. Even if we are able to obtain new financing to pay the amounts due under the Senior Credit Agreement and 6.25% Notes, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. A breach of any of our covenants would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flow. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under the Senior Credit Agreement, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase on any amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement, and our net income would decrease. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn or funded on December 31, 2013, as applicable, each 25 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in annual interest expense on debt outstanding under the Senior Credit Agreement. New construction and home repair and remodeling markets account for a significant portion of our sales, and any substantial reduction in demand from these activities is likely to adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. The overall downturn in the economy, the disruption in capital and credit markets, declining real estate values, high unemployment rates, and reduced consumer confidence and spending have caused significant reductions in demand from our end markets in general and, in particular, the construction and home repair and remodeling markets. The construction industry and home repair and remodeling markets in North America have shown signs of stabilizing from further erosion. However, these markets are still depressed compared to historic norms, and we cannot predict the strength, pace or sustainability of recovery in these markets. Our largest customers are retail home improvement centers and wholesale distributors who serve our key end markets. The Home Depot accounted for approximately 12%, 12%, and 13% of our consolidated net sales during 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. A loss of sales due to decreased demand from the construction market, the home repair and remodel market, any significant customer in these markets, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in these markets could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. The end markets we serve have been and are expected to continue to be cyclical, with product demand based on numerous factors such as seasonal weather, availability of credit, interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, and other factors beyond our control. The economic conditions experienced in the earlier years of the recession negatively affected all of these factors. If demand for the products we sell to these markets were to be further reduced, this could negatively affect our sales, financial results, and cash flows in the future. 12 Table of Contents We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our net sales. The loss of those customers would adversely affect our business. Some of our customers are material to our business and results of operations. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 29%, 30%, and 31% of our net sales during 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Our percentage of net sales to our major customers may increase if we are successful in executing our strategy of broadening the range of products we sell to existing customers. In such as event, or in the event of any consolidation of our customers, our net sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of our largest customers. Similarly, many of our customers have also experienced and continue to experience challenging financial conditions. The financial difficulties of certain customers and/or their failure to obtain credit or otherwise improve their overall financial condition could result in numerous changes within the markets we serve, reduced demand, decreased production, changes in product mix, unfavorable changes in the prices, terms or conditions we are able to obtain and other changes that may result in decrease purchase from us and otherwise negatively impact our business. These customers are also able to exert pricing and other influences on us, requiring us to market, deliver, and promote our products in a manner that may be more costly to us. Moreover, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, although our customers periodically provide indications of their product needs and purchases, they generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss, bankruptcy, or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flow. While we have taken and will continue to take steps intended to mitigate the impact of financial difficulties and potential bankruptcy filings by our customers, these matters could have a negative impact on our business. Our business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on quality, price, raw material and inventory availability, and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. We compete in our principal markets with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have better established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services or enhanced products at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow and cause us to lose market share. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs. We may not be able to pass on increased raw material costs to our customers. Our principal raw materials are commodity products consisting of steel, aluminum, and resins, which we purchase from multiple primary suppliers. The commodity market as a whole is cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. Global consolidation of the primary steel producers and increased demand from other nations such as China and India continue to put pressure on market prices for steel and other commodities. Additionally, we maintain moderate to high levels of inventories to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon expected buying practices and market conditions. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will impact how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the profitability of our business and resulting cash flows would be adversely affected. In the event of rapidly decreasing raw material prices, we may be left to absorb the cost of higher cost inventory as customers receive reduced pricing related to decreases in raw material costs. To the extent we are unable to match our costs to purchase raw materials to prices given to our customers, the profitability of our business and resulting cash flows could be adversely affected. Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to suddenly lose a few of our primary suppliers. If, for any reason, our primary suppliers of steel, aluminum, resins, or other materials should curtail or discontinue deliveries to us in quantities we need and at prices that are competitive, our business could suffer. Our top ten suppliers accounted for 27% of our purchases during 2013. We could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier or several suppliers. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. If, in the future, we were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which would have a material adverse effect on our results, profitability, and cash flow. Increases in energy and freight prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. In particular, our plants use considerable amounts of electricity and our freight expenses include the cost of fuel to operate trucks. Our operating costs increase if energy costs rise. Although we do not believe we have experienced materially higher energy costs as a result of new or more stringent environmental regulations of our energy suppliers, such regulations could increase the cost of generating energy that is passed on to us. We do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. During periods of higher freight and energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through customer price increases without reducing demand for our products. Increases in energy prices may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers through higher selling prices. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to identify, manage, and integrate future acquisitions successfully and, if we are unable to do so, we are unlikely to sustain growth in net sales or profitability and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness may decline. Historically, we have grown through a combination of internal growth plus external expansion through acquisitions such as the acquisitions made during the last three years. Although we intend to actively pursue our growth strategy in the future, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if we do, that we will be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition, or integrate the acquired business profitably into our existing operations. Integration of an acquired business could disrupt our business by diverting management away from other day-to-day operations and could result in liabilities that were not anticipated. Further, failure to integrate any acquisition successfully may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Consummating an acquisition could require us to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional debt financing would increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow otherwise available to reinvest in our business and neither debt nor equity financing may be available on satisfactory terms when required. We are subject to information system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations. We are dependent upon information technology and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, including the distribution of information internally and also to our customers and suppliers. In addition, we collect and store significant amounts of confidential data and information. This information technology and data is subject to theft, damage, or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to malicious computer code, such as worms, viruses and Trojan horses, security breaches, and defects in design. The implementation of new information technology solutions could lead to interruptions of information flow internally and to our customers and suppliers while the implementation project is being completed. We implemented new systems during the past three years at several business units. Various measures have been taken to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions and to prevent attempts to gain unauthorized access through the internet to our information systems. Nevertheless, a security breach, system failure, or failure to integrate legacy systems of acquisitions or to implement new systems properly could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, cyber attacks could threaten, or even impair, the integrity and value of our trade secrets and other sensitive intellectual property. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant influence in matters requiring a stockholder vote and could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of the Company. Approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable under options and similar compensatory instruments granted which are exercisable, or which vested or will vest within 60 days, are owned by Brian J. Lipke, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Eric R. Lipke, Neil E. Lipke, Meredith A. Lipke, and the estate of Curtis W. Lipke, all of whom are siblings, and certain trusts for the benefit of each of them and their families. As a result, the Lipke family has influence over all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Lipke family may be influenced by interests that conflict with the interests of other shareholders. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior executive and divisional management teams. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals, or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Brian J. Lipke, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. 14 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations of, environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations sometimes involves substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, and any failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations including claims arising from the businesses and facilities that we have sold. We sometimes use hazardous and regulated substances such as petroleum products, hydraulic fluids, and solvents in our operations and are responsible for the proper handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. For certain businesses we have divested, we have provided limited indemnifications for environmental contamination to the successor owners. We have also acquired and continue to acquire businesses and facilities to add to our operations. While we sometimes receive indemnification for pre-existing environmental contamination, the party providing the indemnification may not have sufficient resources to cover the cost of any required measures. Certain facilities of ours have been in operation for many years and we may be liable for remediation of any contamination at our current or former facilities; or at off-site locations where wastes have been sent for disposal, regardless of fault or whether we, our predecessors or others are responsible for such contamination. We have been responsible for remediation of contamination at some of our locations and, while such costs have not been material to date, the cost of remediation of any newly-discovered contamination cannot be quantified, and we cannot assure you that it will not materially affect our profits or cash flows. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including without limitation new or more stringent regulations affecting greenhouse gas emissions or use of fossil fuels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Labor disruptions at any of our major customers or at our own manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Many of our customers have unionized workforces and could experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, slow-downs, and strikes. A labor disruption at one or more of our customers could interrupt production or sales by that customer and cause the customer to halt or limit orders for our products and services. Any such reduction in the demand for our products and services would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flow. In addition, approximately 14% of our own employees are represented by unions through various collective bargaining agreements. None of our current collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire until June 30, 2016. It is likely that our unionized employees will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of these agreements, and we may be unable to negotiate new agreements without labor disruption or on terms favorable to us. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of our facilities. If any labor disruption were to occur at our facilities, we could lose sales due to interruptions in production and could incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flow. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow. Our net sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters primarily due to reduced activity in the building industry due to inclement weather. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of shipments of large customer orders. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may not be able to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance. A default under any of our indebtedness could prevent us from borrowing additional funds, limit our ability to pay interest or principal and allow our senior secured lenders to enforce their liens against our assets securing our indebtedness to these senior secured lenders. Economic, political, and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our financial results. Although the large majority of our business activity takes place in the United States, we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in other countries, and are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales during the year ended December 31, 2013. We have facilities in Canada, England, and Germany. We believe that our business activities outside of the United States involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include deterioration of foreign economic conditions, uncertainty over the stability of the Eurozone, the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States or in governmental policies, laws or regulations, terrorist activity that may cause social disruption, logistical and communications challenges, costs of complying with a variety of laws and regulations, difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, deterioration of foreign economic conditions, currency rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions, differing local business practices and cultural considerations, restrictions on imports and exports or sources of supply, and changes in duties or taxes. Adverse changes in any of these risks could adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Business disruptions, including increased costs for or interruptions in the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards, from casualty events, such as fires or material equipment breakdown, from acts of terrorism, from epidemic or pandemic disease, or from other events such as required maintenance shutdowns, could cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers. Such interruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, product warranty and other claims and other legal proceedings. We are involved in product liability, product warranty and other claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from parties, such as customers, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 