Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had $943.6 million of debt outstanding, and $308.0 million of availability under our five year revolving credit agreement and $43.7 million of availability under various non-U.S. credit facilities. The outstanding debt has decreased by 47% from the $1,780.0 million outstanding at March 31, 2005, following our acquisition of the Surface Specialties business. Even though we have repaid a substantial portion of the previous debt balance, our remaining indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. A discussion of our debt is contained in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated herein. We consider our principal credit agreements ("PCA's") to be our five-year term loan ($52.6 million outstanding at December 31, 2006) and $350.0 million five-year revolving credit facilities ($42.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2006). Our PCA's require us to meet financial ratios, including total consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreements) and consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreements) to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants as in effect from time to time, will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with those covenants and terms, we will be in default. In this case, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance. If we were unable to obtain any necessary waivers, the debt under our PCA's could be accelerated, and become immediately due and payable. In addition, both of our PCA's have a cross default provision whereby amounts outstanding could become due and payable if we default on other debt obligations of at least $25.0 million. We could be adversely affected if our debt is downgraded. Our ability to complete financing of debt securities on satisfactory terms in the future will depend, in part, on the status of our future credit ratings. The current ratings of our senior unsecured long-term indebtedness are BBB- by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service ("S&P") and Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"). Either S&P or Moody's, or both, may downgrade our credit rating at any time, which would make it more difficult to complete financing of debt securities on satisfactory terms and would generally result in increased future borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants and may adversely affect our access to capital. In addition, such a downgrade from current levels would trigger a requirement, under the terms of our PCA's, for specified subsidiaries in the U.S. to guarantee the obligations under our PCA's. We may encounter difficulties in completing the information technology integration of Surface Specialties. We continue the process of implementing our Cytec Specialty Chemicals global enterprise-wide planning systems for the acquired business of Surface Specialties. The world-wide implementation is expected to be completed in early 2009 and includes changes that involve internal control over financial reporting. Although we expect this implementation to proceed without any material adverse effects, the possibility exists that the migration to our global enterprise-wide planning systems could adversely affect our internal control, our disclosure control and procedures or our results of operations in future periods. We are reviewing each system and site as they are being implemented and the control affected by the implementation. Appropriate changes have been or will be made to any affected internal control during the implementation. Disposition or restructuring charges and goodwill impairment or acquisition intangible impairment or other asset impairment charges may unpredictably affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw certain product lines. For example in July 2006, we announced the sale of the water treatment chemicals and acrylamide product lines to Kemira Group. The water treatment chemicals product line was previously included in the Cytec Performance Chemicals segment and the acrylamide product line was previously included in the Building Block Chemicals segment. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Additionally, management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of approximately $51.1 million in 2006 principally related to plant closures and employee severance. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. 13 We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in our fourth fiscal quarter and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of the stated assets. In connection with the 2005 acquisition of Surface Specialties, we recorded goodwill in the amount of $725.7 million and recorded acquisition intangibles of $490.4 million. In total, we had $1,042.5 million of goodwill, and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $486.1 million at December 31, 2006. Future events could cause the impairment of goodwill or acquisition intangibles associated with the Surface Specialties business or any other of our reporting units. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. Prices and availability of raw materials could adversely affect our operations. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Customers and Suppliers." We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Competition." We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - International." Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Operating Risks." We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Environmental Matters." Some of our customers' businesses are cyclical and demand by our customers for our products weakens during economic downturns. Loss of significant customers may have an adverse effect on our business. See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Customers and Suppliers." We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk. See "Item 1. LEGAL PROCEDINGS." Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 