Item 1A. RISK FACTORS • Portfolio Management – Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw certain segments and/or product lines. We announced that we are reviewing all options for our Coating Resins segment including the sale of the entire segment. This analysis includes investigating whether the pressure sensitive adhesives (“PSA”) product line should be included in a sale transaction. The PSA product line is included within our Engineered Materials segment, but shares technology and certain manufacturing assets with the Coating Resins segment. A sale of these businesses may lead to a non-cash loss or require further cash restructuring charges, including those related to the significant stranded costs from such a transaction. We expect to make a decision on the separation of these businesses in the second quarter of 2012. • Uses of Cash We have significant cash balances on hand which would increase with net proceeds from a sale of a business or product line. Our uses of cash are as follows: maintenance of business capital and funding; expansion capital in our growth product lines; bolt-on acquisitions, debt repurchase and return of excess cash to shareholders through stock buyback and dividends. The use of cash for capacity expansions or bolt-on acquisitions requires the use of significant estimates by management on future revenues and costs. If the actual results for revenues are materially less or costs materially higher than the estimates made by management, it would reduce the returns on the use of the cash employed and future cash generation. • Restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, acquisition intangible impairment, or other asset impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $21.6 in 2011 principally related to plant closures and employee severance. See Note 3 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis each October 1st and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible asset may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. In total, we had goodwill of $675.7 and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $303.4 at December 31, 2011. See “Significant Accounting Estimates / Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7A., “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for further discussion on our goodwill impairment testing. • Prices and availability of raw materials could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to recover increased raw material costs, timely or at all, particularly in our Coating Resins segment could materially impact our operating results. Our Coating Resins segment purchases a number of raw materials such as acrylic acid and methanol derivatives, which are derivatives of propylene. Propylene is primarily derived from oil and the cost of oil materially impacts the cost of propylene. -10- Table of Contents • Loss of certain significant customers may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several significant customers may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers” • We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Competition” • We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – International” • Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Operating Risks” • We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” • We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk. See “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” • A downturn in global economic conditions coupled with a lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customers’ demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable with us and/or their viability. We attempt to mitigate the risks associated with extending credit to our customers by maintaining detailed credit procedures and routinely updating customer credit limits. It is possible that these procedures will not fully mitigate customer collectability risk. Our results of operations in 2011 and 2010 were not significantly impacted by the inability of our customers to pay. However, the risks associated with extending credit to our customers could increase if global economic conditions or the financial viability of our customers worsen. • A downturn in global economic conditions could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to supply our raw materials requirements. Our suppliers could be impacted by a downturn in global economic conditions in many of the same ways that such conditions would impact us. If economic conditions deteriorate or the financial viability of our suppliers worsens, our suppliers may not be able to meet their raw material commitments to us, could request shortened payment terms, or could reduce or in extreme cases eliminate the amount of credit they extend to us. Our operations in 2011 and 2010 were not significantly impacted by these factors due to the diversity of our supplier base and our materials sourcing strategies. However, it is possible that such procedures and strategy may not completely eliminate these risks. • If the current global economic recovery weakens, it could significantly impact our results of operations and cash flows. This could impact our ability to fund certain investments for growth, could cause a significant reduction in global operations, our ability to borrow and impact our current credit rating. As we have experienced in the past, downturns in the global economy can especially impact the automotive, construction and general industrial markets that we serve and could lead to a significant reduction in our sales and operating profitability. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may be forced to take additional cost reduction initiatives that could lead to further reductions in profitability and could jeopardize our ability to fund growth programs designed to position us for success when economic conditions improve. Further, the reduced profitability and cash generation that would be triggered by a weakening of economic conditions could (1) limit the amounts we can borrow under our primary credit facility due to the covenants contained in the agreement, and (2) could unfavorably impact our credit rating. In both instances, our ability to borrow could be limited and thus our liquidity adversely impacted. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 