Item 1A. RISK FACTORS •Our successful and timely completion of six major capital projects involves a number of risks.We have limited capacity available for future growth in several important product lines. We have ongoing capital projects to complete and/or qualify, including the following: (i) expand our aerospace adhesive manufacturing capacity at Havre de Grace, Maryland; (ii) expand our prepreg manufacturing capacity at Greenville, Texas; (iii) expand our MEP manufacturing capacity in Nagpur, India; (iv) expand our mining and phosphine chemicals manufacturing capacity in Niagara Falls, Ontario; (v) expand our standard modulus carbon fiber manufacturing capacity in Greenville, South Carolina; and (vi) to move all production operations from the Costa Mesa, Adelanto, and Huntington Beach, California sites into the Winona, Minnesota, Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Anaheim, California locations. A protracted late start or failure to successfully startup any of these expansion projects whether for construction delays, permitting issues or otherwise, could lead to reduced revenue and growth opportunities, potential contractual penalties for failures to meet customer requirements and/or potential loss of market share. In addition, any unanticipated problems, expenses or additional capital required to complete any of these projects or reduction in demand for products produced at these sites could lead to reduced profitability or returns to the applicable business segment and overall company.•Uses of CashWe have generated a significant amount of cash in recent years. Our uses of cash are as follows: maintenance of business capital and funding; expansion capital in our growth product lines; bolt-on acquisitions; debt repurchase; and return of excess cash to shareholders through stock buyback and dividends. The use of cash for capacity expansions or bolt-on acquisitions requires the use of significant estimates by management on future revenues and costs. If the actual results for revenues are materially less or costs materially higher than the estimates made by management, it would reduce the returns on the use of the cash employed and future cash generation. •Restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, acquisition intangible impairment, or other asset impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future.Management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $6.9 in 2013 principally related to employee severance and asset impairments. We also recorded restructuring charges of $21.2 in 2012 principally related to employee severance. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded.We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis each October 1st and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for - 11-Table of Contentsother possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible asset may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. In total, we had goodwill of $521.3 and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $161.1 at December 31, 2013. See “Significant Accounting Estimates / Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for further discussion on our goodwill impairment testing.•Loss of certain significant customers, such as Boeing and its subcontractors, may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several significant customers may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results.•Some of the markets in which we operate have experienced business cycles and downturns and deterioration in any such cyclical markets could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.•Reductions in aerospace or defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales which could adversely affect our revenue and financial conditions.•Interruptions in our supply chain from key suppliers or increases in the cost of raw materials could negatively affect our profitability.See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers”•Loss or reductions of sales from certain programs from customers such as the Boeing 787 program or Lockheed Martin Joint Strike Fighter may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several programs may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results.•We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Competition”•We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations.See “Item 1. BUSINESS – International”•Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations.See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Operating Risks”•We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks.See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters”•We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk.See “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS”•Risks related to recent divestitures and acquisitions. The final price and net gain or loss on the sale of the coatings business and the Industrial Materials distribution product line and the acquisition of our MEP manufacturing facility in Nagpur, India are subject to final working capital and other customary adjustments. While we believe we have adequately accounted for all aspects of the sale of these businesses, there is a possibility that certain expenses or adjustments to working capital, environmental, tax or other matters may arise which could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. •Risks related to implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system.We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”). The ERP is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. The company’s ERP will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources. In implementing the ERP, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the ERP could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades while we implement the new ERP system. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise. •We are subject to cyber-security risks.We are subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to unauthorized access and loss of our proprietary data and intellectual property due to attack by hackers, breaches, employee error or malfeasance. In - 12-Table of Contentsaddition, our information technology (“IT”) systems are vulnerable to damage from power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft or loss of our, or our customers’, intellectual property or other confidential information. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information or intellectual property, it could lead to claims against us, affect our relationships with our customers, cause damage to our reputation, reduce the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, interfere with regulatory compliance, and ultimately harm our business. To protect against these risks, we follow industry standard practices for employing security solutions to minimize the potential of unauthorized access or malicious activity impacting our company systems and data. We also engage third party consultants from time to time to assess our security systems to ensure our security solutions are operating effectively. While we will continue to implement such protective measures to reduce the risk of and detect future cyber incidents, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and the techniques used in such attacks change rapidly. There can be no assurances that our protective measures will prevent future attacks that could have a significant impact on our business.•New and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and results of operations.Increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the United States), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. For example, the Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both health care services and benefits in the United States; the ACA may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. We provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. The ACA did not have a material impact on our fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011 financial results; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the ACA on our health care benefit costs. The regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. These developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen.•A downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact our customers, our suppliers, and ultimately, our results of operations and cash flows, our credit ratings, and our ability to grow. A lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customers’ demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable with us, and/or their viability. We attempt to mitigate the risks associated with extending credit to our customers by maintaining detailed credit procedures and routinely updating customer credit limits. It is possible that these procedures will not fully mitigate customer collectability risk. Our results of operations in 2013 and 2012 were not significantly impacted by the inability of our customers to pay. However, the risks associated with extending credit to our customers could increase if global economic conditions or the financial viability of our customers worsen. Additionally, our suppliers could be impacted by a downturn in global economic conditions in many of the same ways that such conditions would impact us. If economic conditions deteriorate or the financial viability of our suppliers worsens, our suppliers may not be able to meet their raw material commitments to us, could request shortened payment terms, or could reduce or in extreme cases eliminate the amount of credit they extend to us. Our operations in 2013 and 2012 were not significantly impacted by these factors due to the diversity of our supplier base and our materials sourcing strategies. However, it is possible that such procedures and strategy may not completely eliminate these risks.As we have experienced in the past, downturns in the global economy can impact the aerospace, mining, construction, automotive, and general industrial markets that we serve and could lead to a significant reduction in our sales and operating profitability. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may be forced to take additional cost reduction initiatives that could lead to further reductions in profitability and could jeopardize our ability to fund growth programs designed to position us for success when economic conditions improve. Further, the reduced profitability and cash generation that would be triggered by a weakening of economic conditions could (1) limit the amounts we can borrow under our primary credit facility due to the covenants contained in the agreement, and (2) could unfavorably impact our credit rating. In both instances, our ability to borrow could be limited and thus our liquidity adversely impacted.•Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate. See “COMMENTS ON FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS.”- 13-Table of ContentsItem 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.