Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had $848.8 million of total debt outstanding. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. A discussion of our debt is contained in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated herein. There is $286 million of availability under our $400.0 million five-year revolving credit facility, which expires June 2012, and $74.1 million of availability under various non-U.S. credit facilities. Under the five-year revolving credit facility, we are required to meet financial ratios, including total consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) and consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with those covenants and terms, we will be in default. In this case, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance. If we were unable to obtain any necessary waivers, the amounts outstanding under this agreement could be accelerated, and become immediately due and payable, and we would not be able to borrow any additional funds under the agreement while such default continued. If our ability to fully borrow under the facility is limited by the margins upon which we are compliant, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain the full use of the revolver and, as a result, we believe our financing costs would be significantly higher. Disposition or restructuring charges and goodwill impairment or acquisition intangible impairment or other asset impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw certain product lines. Additionally, management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $15 million in 2008 principally related to plant closures and employee severance. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis each October 1st and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible asset may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. See Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion on our goodwill impairment testing. In connection with the 2005 acquisition of Surface Specialties, we recorded goodwill in the amount of $725.7 million and recorded acquisition intangibles of $490.4 million. In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 a $385.0 million ($358.3 million after-tax) non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our Surface Specialties reporting unit. The impairment charge was based on a comparison of the implied fair value of goodwill to the book value of goodwill. The determination of the implied fair value of goodwill considers the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, which values rely on an estimate of projected cash flows expected to be generated by the Surface Specialties reporting unit on a discounted basis. If we are unable to achieve these expected cash flow projections, or other indicators of impairment exist, such as a further decline in our share price and market capitalization, we may incur additional material impairment charges relating to our goodwill. Any potential future impairment charges would also be non-cash and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. In total, we had $693.7 million of goodwill and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $430.8 million at December 31, 2008. Prices and availability of raw materials could adversely affect our operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers.” We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Competition.” - 13 - Table of Contents We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – International.” Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Operating Risks.” We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters.” The current global economic weakness coupled with a lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customer’s demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable to us and/or their viability. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers”. The current market conditions could also adversely impact our supplier’s ability to supply our materials requirement and/or their viability. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers”. Loss of certain significant customers may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several significant customers may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers”. If the current global economic weakness worsens or continues for an extended period, it could significantly impact our results of operations and cash flows. This could impact our ability to fund certain investments for growth, could cause a significant reduction in global operations and impact our current credit rating. We anticipate that if we had to borrow funds beyond our current revolving credit agreement, or if our ability to fully borrow under the facility is limited by the margins upon which we are compliant and if a waiver with our lenders is needed, the financing costs would be significantly higher. We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk. See “Item 1. LEGAL PROCEDINGS.” Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 14 - Table of Contents 