ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks. Our future results could differ materially from current results, and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, those set forth below, other one-time events, and important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. REAL ESTATE RISKS General economic conditions and the concentration of our properties in Michigan, Florida, Indiana, and Texas may affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue. The market and economic conditions in our current markets generally, and specifically in metropolitan areas of our current markets, may significantly affect manufactured home occupancy or rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates, in turn, may significantly affect our revenues, and if our communities do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay or refinance our debt obligations could be adversely affected. We derive significant amounts of our rental income from properties located in Michigan, Florida, Indiana, and Texas. As of December 31, 2011, 66 of our 159 Properties representing approximately 37% of developed sites, are located in Michigan; 23 Properties representing approximately 21% of developed sites, are located in Florida; 18 Properties representing approximately 12% of developed sites, are located in Indiana; and 17 Properties representing approximately 10% of developed sites are located in Texas. As a result of the geographic concentration of our Properties in Michigan, Florida, Indiana, and Texas, we are exposed to the risks of downturns in the local economy or other local real estate market conditions which could adversely affect occupancy rates, rental rates, and property values of properties in these markets. Our income would also be adversely affected if tenants were unable to pay rent or if sites were unable to be rented on favorable terms. If we were unable to promptly relet or renew the leases for a significant number of the sites, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting were significantly lower than expected rates, then our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, certain expenditures associated with each Property (such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs) generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the Property. Furthermore, real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, will tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the revenues generated by our communities: · the national and local economic climate which may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, plant closings, and industry slowdowns; · local real estate market conditions such as the oversupply of manufactured housing sites or a reduction in demand for manufactured housing sites in an area; · the number of repossessed homes in a particular market; · the lack of an established dealer network; · the rental market which may limit the extent to which rents may be increased to meet increased expenses without decreasing occupancy rates; · the perceptions by prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our Properties and the neighborhoods where they are located; · zoning or other regulatory restrictions; · competition from other available manufactured housing communities and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single-family homes); · our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance; · increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes, and utilities; and · the enactment of rent control laws or laws taxing the owners of manufactured homes. 9 REAL ESTATE RISKS, CONTINUED Competition affects occupancy levels and rents which could adversely affect our revenues. All of our Properties are located in developed areas that include other manufactured housing community properties. The number of competitive manufactured housing community properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease sites and increase rents charged at our Properties or at any newly acquired properties. We may be competing with others with greater resources and whose officers and directors have more experience than our officers and directors. In addition, other forms of multi-family residential properties, such as private and federally funded or assisted multi-family housing projects and single-family housing, provide housing alternatives to potential tenants of manufactured housing communities. Our ability to sell or lease manufactured homes may be affected by various factors, which may in turn adversely affect our profitability. SHS operates in the manufactured home market offering manufactured home sales and leasing services to tenants and prospective tenants of our communities. The market for the sale and lease of manufactured homes may be adversely affected by the following factors: · downturns in economic conditions which adversely impact the housing market; · an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, manufactured homes; · the difficulty facing potential purchasers in obtaining affordable financing as a result of heightened lending criteria; and · an increase or decrease in the rate of manufactured home repossessions which provide aggressively priced competition to new manufactured home sales. Any of the above listed factors could adversely impact our rate of manufactured home sales and leases, which would result in a decrease in profitability. Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our revenue. Costs resulting from changes in real estate laws, income taxes, service or other taxes, generally are not passed through to tenants under leases and may adversely affect our funds from operations and our ability to pay or refinance our debt. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate or finance our expansion and development activities. From time to time, we engage in the construction and development of new communities or expansion of existing communities, and may continue to engage in the development and construction business in the future. Our development and construction business may be exposed to the following risks which are in addition to those risks associated with the ownership and operation of established manufactured housing communities: · we may not be able to obtain financing with favorable terms for community development which may make us unable to proceed with the development; · we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, building and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and delays, and even require us to abandon development of the community entirely if we are unable to obtain such permits or authorizations; · we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore and as a result we may not recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such development opportunities; · we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; · we may incur construction and development costs for a community which exceed our original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, which could make completion of the community uneconomical and we may not be able to increase rents to compensate for the increase in development costs which may impact our profitability; 10 REAL ESTATE RISKS, CONTINUED · we may be unable to secure long-term financing on completion of development resulting in increased debt service and lower profitability; and · occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on several factors, including market and economic conditions, which may result in the community not being profitable. If any of the above occurred, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to integrate or finance our acquisitions and our acquisitions may not perform as expected. We have acquired and intend to continue to acquire manufactured housing and RV communities on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: · we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly traded real estate investment trusts and institutional investment funds; · even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction, which may not be satisfied; · even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; · we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms; · acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; · acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and · we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations. If any of the above occurred, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were to be asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Rent control legislation may harm our ability to increase rents. State and local rent control laws in certain jurisdictions may limit our ability to increase rents and to recover increases in operating expenses and the costs of capital improvements. Enactment of such laws has been considered from time to time in other jurisdictions. Certain Properties are located, and we may purchase additional properties, in markets that are either subject to rent control or in which rent-limiting legislation exists or may be enacted. 11 REAL ESTATE RISKS, CONTINUED We may be subject to environmental liability. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances at, on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such property, to borrow using such property as collateral or to develop such property. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility owned or operated by another person. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for the management and disposal of asbestos-containing materials and for the release of such materials into the air. These laws may provide for third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. In connection with the ownership, operation, management, and development of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of such properties and, therefore, are potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, and also may be liable for governmental fines and injuries to persons and property. When we arrange for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances at landfills or other facilities owned by other persons, we may be liable for the removal or remediation costs at such facilities. All of the Properties have been subject to a Phase I or similar environmental audit (which involves general inspections without soil sampling or ground water analysis) completed by independent environmental consultants. These environmental audits have not revealed any significant environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on our business. These audits cannot reflect conditions arising after the studies were completed, and no assurances can be given that existing environmental studies reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of a property or neighboring owner or operator did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more Properties. Losses in excess of our insurance coverage or uninsured losses could adversely affect our cash flow. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood (where appropriate), extended coverage, and rental loss insurance on the Properties with policy specifications, limits, and deductibles which are customarily carried for similar properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, or acts of war. In the event an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from the affected property. Any loss could adversely affect our ability to repay our debt. FINANCING AND INVESTMENT RISKS Our significant amount of debt could limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding, consisting of approximately $1.1 billion in debt that is collateralized by mortgage liens on 127 of the Properties, $81.7 million that is secured by collateralized receivables, $21.5 million that is collateralized by liens on manufactured homes, and $107.5 million that is secured by the first priority lien on all of our equity interest in 29 properties and $48.8 million that is unsecured debt. If we fail to meet our obligations under our secured debt, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on all or some of the collateral securing such debt which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make expected distributions, and could threaten our continued viability. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the following risks: · our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, or require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay our debt and the interest associated with our debt rather than to other areas of our business; · our existing indebtedness may limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt; · it may be more difficult for us to obtain additional financing in the future for our operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service or other general requirements; · we may be more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · we may not be able to refinance at all or on favorable terms, as our debt matures. If any of the above risks occurred, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 12 FINANCING AND INVESTMENT RISKS, CONTINUED We may incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, an even greater portion of our cash flow will be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on our indebtedness. The financial condition and solvency of our borrowers may adversely affect our installment notes. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $94.6 million of installment notes, net of reserves, to owners of manufactured homes. These installment loans are collateralized by the manufactured homes. We may invest in additional mortgages and installment loans in the future. By virtue of our investment in the mortgages and the loans, we are subject to the following risks of such investment: · the borrowers may not be able to make debt service payments or pay principal when due; · the value of property securing the installment notes receivable may be less than the amounts owed; and · interest rates payable on the installment notes receivable may be lower than our cost of funds. If any of the above occurred, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. TAX RISKS We may suffer adverse tax consequences and be unable to attract capital if we fail to qualify as a REIT. We believe that since our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we have been organized and operated, and intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Code. Although we believe that we have been and will continue to be organized and have operated and will continue to operate so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we cannot be assured that we have been or will continue to be organized or operated in a manner to so qualify or remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, frequent changes occur in the area of REIT taxation, which require us to continually to monitor our tax status. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we could be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability to us for the years involved. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer be required to be made. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our property and certain of our operations. We intend for the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership, but we cannot guarantee that it will qualify. We believe that the Operating Partnership has been organized as a partnership and will qualify for treatment as such under the Code. However, if the Operating Partnership is deemed to be a “publicly traded partnership,” it will be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership for federal income tax purposes unless at least 90% of its income is qualifying income as defined in the Code. The income requirements applicable to REITs and the definition of “qualifying income” for purposes of this 90% test are similar in most respects. Qualifying income for the 90% test generally includes passive income, such as specified types of real property rents, dividends and interest. We believe that the Operating Partnership would meet this 90% test, but we cannot guarantee that it would. If the Operating Partnership were to be taxed as a corporation, it would incur substantial tax liabilities, we would fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and our ability to raise additional capital could be significantly impaired. Our ability to accumulate cash may be restricted due to certain REIT distribution requirements. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (calculated without any deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain) and to avoid federal income taxation, our distributions must not be less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains. As a result of the distribution requirements, we do not expect to accumulate significant amounts of cash. Accordingly, these distributions could significantly reduce the cash available to us in subsequent periods to fund our operations and future growth. 13 TAX RISKS, CONTINUED Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, are subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes. As a REIT, we must pay a 100% penalty tax on certain payments that we receive if the economic arrangements between us and any of our TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. The Internal Revenue Service may successfully assert that the economic arrangements of any of our inter-company transactions are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to certain dividends. The maximum federal tax rate for certain dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (generally through 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular qualified corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less competitive than investments in stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the comparative value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy requirements and tests under the tax law concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego or limit attractive business or investment opportunities and distribute all of our net earnings rather than invest in attractive opportunities or hold larger liquid reserves. Therefore, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely to maximize profits. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience a change in ownership, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. Under Section 382 of the Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of this offering and subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. If an ownership change were to occur, we would be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we could use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. BUSINESS RISKS Some of our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest with respect to certain related party transactions and other business interests. Ownership of Origen. We own 5,000,000 shares of Origen Financial, Inc. (“Origen”) common stock and Shiffman Origen LLC (which is owned by the Milton M. Shiffman Spouse’s Marital Trust, Gary A. Shiffman (our Chief Executive Officer), and members of Mr. Shiffman’s family) owns 1,025,000 shares of Origen common stock. Gary A. Shiffman is a member of the Board of Directors of Origen and one of our directors, Arthur A. Weiss, is a trustee of the Milton M. Shiffman Spouse’s Marital Trust. Accordingly, in all transactions involving Origen, Mr. Shiffman and/or Mr. Weiss may have a conflict of interest with respect to their respective obligations as our officer and/or director. Lease of Executive Offices. Gary A. Shiffman, together with certain family members, indirectly owns a 21 percent equity interest in American Center LLC, the entity from which we lease office space for our principal executive offices. Arthur A. Weiss, one of our directors, owns a 0.75 percent indirect interest in American Center LLC. As of October 2011, we lease approximately 48,200 rentable square feet. The term of the lease is until October 31, 2016, with an option to renew for an additional five years. The annual base rent under the current lease is $18.61 per square foot (gross) and will remain this amount through October 31, 2014. From November 1, 2014 to August 31, 2015, the annual base rent will be $18.72 per square foot (gross) and then from September 1, 2015 to October 31, 2016, the annual base rent will be $17.92 per square foot (gross). Mr. Shiffman and Mr. Weiss may have a conflict of interest with respect to their obligations as our officer and/or director and their ownership interest in American Center LLC. Legal Counsel. During 2011, Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer, & Weiss, Professional Corporation (“JRH&W”) acted as our general counsel and represented us in various matters. Arthur A. Weiss, one of our directors, is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and a shareholder of such firm. We incurred legal fees and expenses of approximately $2.5 million, $0.8 million and $1.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 14 BUSINESS RISKS, CONTINUED Tax Consequences Upon Sale of Properties. Gary A. Shiffman holds limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership which were received in connection with the contribution of 24 properties (four of which have been sold) from partnerships previously affiliated with him (the “Sun Partnerships”). Prior to any redemption of these limited partnership interests for our common stock, Mr. Shiffman will have tax consequences different from those of us and our public stockholders on the sale of any of the Sun Partnerships. Therefore, we and Mr. Shiffman may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale of those properties. We rely on key management. We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers, Gary A. Shiffman, John B. McLaren, Karen J. Dearing and Jonathan M. Colman (together, the “Executive Officers”). The loss of services of one or more of our Executive Officers could have a temporary adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain or contemplate obtaining any “key-man” life insurance on the Executive Officers. Certain provisions in our governing documents may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us. 9.8% Ownership Limit. In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. Thus, ownership of more than 9.8%, in number of shares or value, of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock by any single stockholder has been restricted, with certain exceptions, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the Code. Such restrictions in our charter do not apply to Gary A. Shiffman, the Milton M. Shiffman Spouse’s Marital Trust and the Estate of Robert B. Bayer, Gary Shiffman, Milton M. Shiffman, Robert B. Bayer, or trustees, personal representatives and agents acting on their respective behalfs, or certain of their respective relatives. The 9.8% ownership limit, as well as our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or shares of other stock (which may have rights and preferences over the common stock), may discourage a change of control of the Company and may also: (1) deter tender offers for the common stock, which offers may be advantageous to stockholders; and (2) limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a block of common stock in excess of 9.8% of our outstanding shares or otherwise effect a change of control of the Company. Staggered Board. Our Board of Directors has been divided into three classes of directors. The term of one class will expire each year. Directors for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the expiration of such class’s term, and the directors in the other two classes will continue in office. The staggered terms for directors may affect the stockholders’ ability to change control of the Company even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ interest. Preferred Stock. Our charter authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert into shares of common stock) of any shares issued. The power to issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ interest. Rights Plan. We adopted a stockholders’ rights plan in 2008 that provides our stockholders (other than a stockholder attempting to acquire a 15% or greater interest in us) with the right to purchase our stock at a discount in the event any person attempts to acquire a 15% or greater interest in us. Because this plan could make it more expensive for a person to acquire a controlling interest in us, it could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ interest. Changes in our investment and financing policies may be made without stockholder approval. Our investment and financing policies, and our policies with respect to certain other activities, including our growth, debt, capitalization, distributions, REIT status, and operating policies, are determined by our Board of Directors. Although the Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, these policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors without notice to or a vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may not have control over changes in our policies and changes in our policies may not fully serve the interests of all stockholders. 15 BUSINESS RISKS, CONTINUED Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for shares. Based on the applicable conversion ratios then in effect, as of December 31, 2011, in the future we may issue to the limited partners of the Operating Partnership, up to approximately 2.1 million shares of our common stock in exchange for their common OP Units, up to approximately 0.5 million shares of our common stock in exchange for their Aspen Preferred OP Units, and up to approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock in exchange for their Preferred OP Units, although the Preferred OP Units may not be converted into shares of common stock until December 31, 2013. The limited partners may sell such shares pursuant to registration rights or an available exemption from registration. As of December 31, 2011, options to purchase 77,086 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our 1993 Employee Stock Option Plan, our 1993 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, our 2004 Non-Employee Director Option Plan and our Long-Term Incentive Plan. We currently have the authority to issue restricted stock awards or options to purchase up to an additional 693,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, we entered into an “at-the-market” Sales Agreement in August 2009 to issue and sell shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we have 1,297,663 shares authorized for sale under this agreement. On August 6, 2010, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with REIT Ltd., and have 2,973,666 shares remaining to be purchased under this agreement after the issuance on January 4, 2011. No prediction can be made regarding the effect that future sales of shares of our common stock or our other securities will have on the market price of shares. An increase in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock in the public market will be the annual distributions to stockholders relative to the prevailing market price of the common stock. An increase in market interest rates may tend to make the common stock less attractive relative to other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The volatility in economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and financial performance. The capital and credit markets have experienced unusual volatility and disruption during the past few years. Despite the fact that the U.S. economy is recovering from the recent recession, the recovery rate has been much slower than anticipated. In addition, job growth remains sluggish, and sustained high unemployment can hinder economic growth even further. While bank earnings and liquidity are on the rebound, the potential of significant future credit losses clouds the lending outlook. Credit availability has improved, but still lags pre-recession levels hampering business expansion and new development activities. The higher level of unemployment, coupled with the sluggish rate of economic recovery, may adversely impact our business. The other risk factors presented in this Form 10-K discuss some of the principal risks inherent in our business, including liquidity risks, operational risks, and credit risks, among others. The turbulence in financial markets has accentuated each of these risks and magnified their potential effect on us. If these economic developments continue to rebound slowly or worsen, there could be an adverse impact on our access to capital, stock price and our operating results. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on our capital stock or to service our indebtedness, and we may adjust our common stock dividend policy. Our ability to make distributions on our common stock and payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock, to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. The decision to declare and pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of debt and equity capital, applicable REIT and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 16 BUSINESS RISKS, CONTINUED Our share price could be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial or complete loss on our stockholders' investment. The stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), on which we list our common stock, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: · our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; · our ability to maintain compliance with covenants contained in our debt facilities; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, cash flows or liquidity; · changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; · changes in our dividend policy; · publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry generally; · increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher dividend yield; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to the amount of our debt outstanding at any time, the amount of our debt maturing in the near- and medium-term and our ability to refinance our debt, or our plans to incur additional debt in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · speculation in the press or investment community; · actions by institutional stockholders; and · general market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. Those factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of our common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. 17 