D. Risk Factors. A financial or other crisis in any region worldwide can have a significant impact on the countries in which we operate, and consequently, may adversely affect our operations, as well as our liquidity. The five countries in which we operate are vulnerable to external shocks, including financial and political events, which could cause significant economic difficulties and affect their growth. If any of these economies experience lower than expected economic growth or a recession, it is likely that our customers will demand less electricity. Furthermore, some of our customers may experience difficulties paying their electric bills, possibly increasing our uncollectible accounts. Any of these situations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Financial and political crisis in other parts of the world could also adversely affect our business. For example, the current crisis in Ukraine could result in higher fuel prices worldwide, which in turn could increase our cost of fuel for our thermal generation plants and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents In addition, a financial crisis and its disruptive effects on the financial industry could adversely impact our ability to obtain new bank financings on the same historical terms and conditions. Our ability to tap the capital markets in the five countries in which we operate, as well as the international capital markets for other sources of liquidity, may also be diminished, or such financing may be available only at higher interest levels. Reduced liquidity could, in turn, adversely affect our capital expenditures, our long-term investments and acquisitions, our growth prospects and our dividend payout policy. South American economic fluctuations are likely to affect our results from operations and financial condition, as well as the value of our securities. All of our operations are located in five South American countries. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues may be affected by the performance of South American economies as a whole. If local, regional, or worldwide economic trends adversely affect the economy of any of the five countries in which we have investments or operations, our financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, we have investments in volatile countries, such as Argentina. Insufficient cash flows for our subsidiaries located in Argentina have, in some cases, resulted in their inability to meet debt obligations and the need to seek waivers to comply with restrictive debt covenants. The majority of our operating income is generated in Brazil and Chile and 62% of our operating revenues in 2013 were derived from our operations in these countries, and as a result our financial condition and results of operations are particularly dependent on Brazilian and Chilean economic performance. In 2013, Brazilian GDP increased 2.3% compared to a 1.0% increase in 2012. In 2014, Brazilian GDP is forecast to grow by 2.3% according to the International Monetary Fund. In 2013, Chilean GDP increased by 4.2% compared to a 5.6% increase in 2012. In 2014, Chilean GDP is forecast to grow by 3.75% to 4.75% according to the Central Bank of Chile. Future adverse developments in these economies may impair our ability to execute our strategic plans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, South American financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country may have a significant contagion effect on the securities of issuers in other countries, including Brazil and Chile. Brazilian and Chilean financial and securities markets may be adversely affected by events in other countries, which could adversely affect the value of our securities. A continuing financial crisis in Argentina or a deeper devaluation of the Argentine peso could have an adverse effect on our debt. The Argentine peso is under increasing devaluation pressure against the U.S. dollar. The Argentine government is actively intervening in the currency market in response to capital flight from the country. Currently, Argentina is making incremental adjustments to the Argentine peso and imposing tight restrictions on buying and selling foreign currencies in the country. Media reports from the country describe a robust informal parallel market (referred to as the blue dollar market) in which the Argentine peso appears to have depreciated more steeply than the “official” rate. Because there is no liquidity in the derivatives market in Argentina, our debt is exposed to further devaluation of the Argentine peso. Argentina’s sovereign creditworthiness is deteriorating, based on market data and reports from credit ratings agencies. The insurance cost of sovereign bonds, as measured by credit default swaps, increased to 16.5% from 14.4% in 2013, which indicates an increased probability of a distressed credit event. Argentina’s sovereign debt rating is subject to downgrade actions over the coming months as reflected by the negative outlook established by the major rating agencies. For instance, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the country’s sovereign credit rating to “CCC+” and maintained a negative outlook as of September 2013. Further deterioration to Argentina’s economy could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Certain South American countries have been historically characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic economic interventionist measures by governmental authorities, including expropriations, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. Governmental authorities have altered monetary, credit, tariff, tax and other policies to influence the course of the economies of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. To a lesser extent, the Chilean government has also exercised in the past and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, which may result in changes to economic or other policies. These governmental actions, intended to control inflation and affect other policies, have often involved wage, price and tariff rate controls, as well as other interventionist measures, such as expropriation or nationalization. For example, Argentina froze bank accounts and imposed capital restrictions in 2001, nationalized the private sector pension funds in 2008, used its Central Bank reserves to pay down indebtedness maturing in 2010 and expropriated Repsol’s 51% stake in YPF in 2012. In 2010, Colombia imposed an equity tax to finance reconstruction and repair efforts related to severe flooding, which resulted in an extraordinary tax expense accrual booked in January 2011 for taxes payable in 2011 through 2014. Changes in the policies of these governmental and monetary authorities with respect to tariffs, exchange controls, regulations and taxation could reduce our profitability. Inflation, devaluation, social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments, including the response by governments in the region to these circumstances, could also reduce our profitability. Any of these scenarios could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our electricity business is subject to risks arising from natural disasters, catastrophic accidents and acts of terrorism, which could adversely affect our operations, earnings and cash flow. Our primary facilities include power plants, transmission and distribution assets, pipelines, LNG terminals and re-gasification plants, storage and chartered LNG tankers. Our facilities may be damaged by earthquakes, flooding, fires, other catastrophic disasters arising from natural or accidental human causes, as well as acts of terrorism. A catastrophic event could cause disruptions in our business, significant decreases in revenues due to lower demand or significant additional costs to us not covered by our business interruption insurance. There may be lags between a major accident or catastrophic event and the final reimbursement from our insurance policies, which typically carry a deductible and are subject to per event policy maximums. As an example, on February 27, 2010, Chile experienced a major earthquake in the Bío-Bío region, with a magnitude of 8.8 on the Richter scale, followed by a very destructive tsunami. Our Bocamina and Bocamina II thermal generation units, which are located near the epicenter, sustained significant damage as a result of the earthquake. We are subject to financing risks, such as those associated with funding our new projects and capital expenditures, and risks related to refinancing our maturing debt; we are also subject to debt covenant compliance, all of which could adversely affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, our debt totaled Ch$ 3,697 billion. Our debt had the following maturity timetable: • Ch$ 907 billion in 2014; • Ch$ 773 billion from 2015 to 2016; • Ch$ 597 billion from 2017 to 2018; and • Ch$ 1,420 billion thereafter. 20 Table of Contents Set forth below is a breakdown by country for debt maturing in 2014: • Ch$ 447 billion for Chile; • Ch$ 186 billion for Argentina; • Ch$ 136 billion for Colombia • Ch$ 71 billion for Peru; and • Ch$ 67 billion for Brazil. Some of our debt agreements are subject to (1) financial covenants, (2) affirmative and negative covenants, (3) events of default, (4) mandatory prepayments for contractual breaches, and (5) certain change of control clauses for material mergers and divestments, among other provisions. A significant portion of our financial indebtedness is subject to cross default provisions, which have varying definitions, criteria, materiality thresholds and applicability with respect to subsidiaries that could give rise to such a cross default. In the event that we or our subsidiaries breach any of these material contractual provisions, our creditors and bond holders may demand immediate repayment, and a significant portion of our indebtedness could become due and payable. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or obtain such refinancing on terms acceptable to us. In the absence of such refinancing, we could be forced to dispose of assets in order to make the payments due on our indebtedness under circumstances that might not be favorable to obtaining the best price for such assets. Furthermore, we may be unable to sell our assets quickly enough, or at sufficiently high prices, to enable us to make such payments. We may also be unable to raise the necessary funds required to finish our projects under development or under construction. Market conditions prevailing at the moment we require these funds or other unforeseen project costs can compromise our ability to finance these projects and expenditures. As of the date of this Report, Argentina continues to be the country in which we operate with the highest refinancing risk. As of December 31, 2013, the third-party debt of our Argentine subsidiaries amounted to Ch$ 205 billion. As long as fundamental issues concerning the electricity sector remain unresolved, we will roll over our outstanding Argentine debt to the extent we are able to do so. If our creditors will not continue to roll over our debt when it becomes due and we are unable to refinance such obligations, we could default on such indebtedness. Our Argentine subsidiary, Endesa Costanera, did not make any installment payments due in 2012 and 2013 under the terms of a 1996 supplier credit agreement with Mitsubishi Corporation (“MC”). As of December 31, 2013, Endesa Costanera has missed US$ 68.5 million in payments, including principal and interest. It has experienced difficulties in making timely payments under its agreement with MC on a recurring basis since the Argentine crisis began in 2002, but had received waivers from MC in the past expressing its willingness to renegotiate payments. Additionally, MC has liens over the Mitsubishi combined cycle power plant at Endesa Costanera. As of the date of this Report, Endesa Costanera has not received any waivers for the past-due payments or any acceleration notices. We continue with active negotiations aimed at restructuring the debt. If MC were to declare an event of default and accelerate payment of the US$ 185 million principal and interest balance under the supplier credit agreement, all outstanding Endesa Costanera debt (Ch$ 117 billion) would be accelerated and Endesa Costanera would be required to enter into bankruptcy proceedings. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Our inability to finance new projects or capital expenditures or to refinance our existing debt could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to enter into suitable investments, alliances and acquisitions. On an ongoing basis, we review acquisition prospects that would augment our market coverage or supplement our existing businesses, though there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable acquisition transactions in the future. The acquisition and integration of independent companies or companies that we do not control is generally a complex, costly and time-consuming process and requires significant efforts and expenditures. If we consummate an acquisition, it could result in the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, amortization expenses related to tangible assets and the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since our generation business depends heavily on hydrological conditions, drought conditions may adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 55% of our consolidated installed generation capacity in 2013 was hydroelectric. Accordingly, extreme hydrological conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the last few years, regional hydrology has been affected by two climactic phenomena — El Niño and La Niña — that influence rainfall regularity and may lead to droughts. The effects of El Niño or La Niña can unevenly affect the hydrology of the countries where we operate. During periods of drought, thermal plants, including our facilities that use natural gas, fuel oil or coal as fuel, are used more frequently. Operating costs of thermal plants can be considerably higher than those of hydroelectric plants. Our operating expenses increase during these periods, and, depending on our commercial obligations, we may have to buy electricity at spot prices in order to meet our contractual supply obligations. The cost of these electricity purchases may exceed the price at which we sell contracted electricity, thus producing losses from those contracts. Governmental regulations may adversely affect our business We are subject to extensive regulation of the tariffs we charge our customers and other aspects of our business and these regulations may adversely affect our profitability. For example, the Chilean government can impose electricity rationing during drought conditions or prolonged failures of power facilities. If, during rationing, we are unable to generate enough electricity to comply with our contractual obligations, we may be forced to buy electricity at the spot price, as even a severe drought does not release us from our contractual obligations as a force majeure event. The spot price may be significantly higher than our costs to generate the electricity and can be as high as the “cost of failure” set by the Chilean National Energy Commission (the “CNE”). This “cost of failure”, which is updated semiannually by the CNE, is a measurement of how much final users would pay for one extra MWh under rationing conditions. If we were unable to buy enough electricity at the spot price to comply with our contractual obligations, then we would have to compensate our regulated customers for the electricity we failed to provide at the rationed price. Rationing periods may occur in the future, and consequently our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay regulatory penalties if they fail to provide adequate service under their contractual obligations. Material rationing policies imposed by regulatory authorities in any of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental authorities may also delay the distribution tariff review process, or tariff adjustments determined by governmental authorities may not be sufficient to pass through our costs (as has been the case with Edesur, our Argentine distribution subsidiary). Similarly, electricity regulations issued by governmental authorities in the countries in which we operate may affect the ability of our generation companies (such as Endesa Costanera and Dock Sud in Argentina) to collect revenues sufficient to offset their operating costs. The inability of any company in our consolidated group to collect revenues sufficient to cover operating costs may affect the ability of the affected company to operate as a going concern and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, assets, financial results and operations. In addition, changes in the regulatory framework are often submitted to the legislators and administrative authorities in the countries in which we operate and, if approved, could have a material adverse impact on our business. For instance, in 2005 there was a change in the water rights’ law in Chile that requires us to pay for unused water rights. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities may impose fines on our subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our electricity businesses may be subject to regulatory fines for any breach of current regulations, including energy supply failures, in the five countries in which we operate. In Chile, such fines may be imposed for a maximum of 10,000 Annual Tax Units (Unidades Tributarias Anuales) (“UTA”), or Ch$ 4.9 billion, using the UTA and foreign exchange rate as of December 31, 2013. In Peru, fines may be imposed for a maximum of 1,400 Treasury Tax Units (Unidad Impositiva Tributaria) (“UIT”) or Ch$ 972 million using the rates as of December 31, 2013. In Colombia, fines may be imposed for a maximum of 2,000 Minimum Monthly Salaries (Salarios Mínimos Mensuales) or Ch$ 315 million. In Argentina, there is no maximum limit for the fines. In Brazil, fines may be imposed for up to 2.0% of an electricity company’s revenues. Our electricity generation subsidiaries, supervised by their local regulatory entities, may be subject to these fines in cases where, in the opinion of the regulatory entity, operational failures affecting the regular energy supply to the system are the fault of the company; for instance, when the agents are not coordinated with the system operator. In addition, our subsidiaries may be required to pay fines or to compensate customers if those subsidiaries are unable to deliver electricity, even if such failure is due to forces outside of the subsidiaries’ control. For example, in 2013, ANEEL imposed fines of Ch$ 6.8 billion on Ampla and Ch$ 8 billion on Coelce due to technical and commercial operation failures. In 2013, ENRE imposed fines on Edesur for a total of Ch$ 4.9 billion. In 2011, the Chilean Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels (Superintendencia de Electricidad y Combustibles) (“SEF”) imposed Ch$ 953 million in fines on Endesa Chile, Pehuenche and Chilectra due to a blackout that occurred in the Santiago metropolitan region in March 2010. For further information on fines, please refer to Note 37 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We depend in part on payments from our subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities and associates to meet our payment obligations. In order to pay our obligations, we rely partly on cash from dividends, loans, interest payments, capital reductions, and other distributions from our subsidiaries and equity affiliates. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends, interest payments, loans, and other distributions to us is subject to legal constraints such as dividend restrictions, fiduciary duties, contractual limitations, and foreign exchange controls that may be imposed in any of the five countries where they operate. Historically, we have been able to access the cash flows of our Chilean subsidiaries, but we have not been similarly able to access at all times the cash flows of our non-Chilean operating subsidiaries due to government regulations, strategic considerations, economic conditions, and credit restrictions. Our future results from operations outside Chile may continue to be subject to greater economic and political uncertainties than what we have experienced in Chile, thereby reducing the likelihood that we will be able to rely on cash flows from operations in those entities to repay our debt. Dividend Limits and Other Legal Restrictions. Some of our non-Chilean subsidiaries are subject to legal reserve requirements and other restrictions on dividend payments. Other legal restrictions, such as foreign currency controls, may limit the ability of our non-Chilean subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends and make loan payments or other distributions to us. In addition, the ability of any of our subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned to distribute cash to us may be limited by the fiduciary duties of the directors of such subsidiaries to their minority shareholders. Furthermore, some of our subsidiaries may be forced by local authorities, in accordance with applicable regulation, to diminish or eliminate dividend payments. As a consequence of such restrictions, our subsidiaries could, under certain circumstances, be prevented from distributing cash to us. Contractual Constraints. Distribution restrictions included in certain credit agreements of our subsidiaries Endesa Costanera, El Chocón and Endesa Fortaleza, may prevent dividends and other distributions to shareholders if they are not in compliance with certain financial ratios. Generally, our credit agreements prohibit any type of distribution if there is an ongoing default. 23 Table of Contents Operating Results of Our Subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends or make loan payments or other distributions to us is limited by their operating results. To the extent that the cash requirements of any of our subsidiaries exceed their available cash, the subsidiary will not be able to make cash available to us. Any of the situations described above could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Foreign exchange risks may adversely affect our results, and the U.S. dollar value of dividends payable to ADS holders. The currencies of South American countries in which we and our subsidiaries operate have been subject to large devaluations and appreciations against the U.S. dollar and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Historically, a significant portion of our consolidated indebtedness has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Although a substantial portion of our operating cash flows is linked to U.S. dollars, we generally have been and will continue to be materially exposed to currency fluctuations of our local currencies against the U.S. dollar because of time lags and other limitations to peg our tariffs to the U.S. dollar. In countries where operating cash flows are denominated in the local currency, we seek to maintain debt in the same currency, but due to market conditions it may not be possible to do so. The most material example is in Argentina, where most of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars while our revenues are mostly in Argentine pesos. Because of this exposure, the cash generated by our subsidiaries can decrease substantially when local currencies devalue against the U.S. dollar. Future volatility in the exchange rate of the currencies in which we receive revenues or incur expenditures may affect our financial condition and results from operations. As of December 31, 2013, the amount of Enersis’ total consolidated debt was Ch$ 3,697 billion (net of currency hedging instruments). Of this amount, Ch$ 1,309 billion, or 35%, was denominated in U.S. dollars and Ch$ 335 billion in Chilean pesos. As of December 31, 2013, our consolidated foreign currency-denominated indebtedness (other than U.S. dollars or Chilean pesos) included the equivalent of: • Ch$ 1,233 billion in Colombian pesos; • Ch$ 551 billion in Brazilian reais; • Ch$ 222 billion in Peruvian soles; and • Ch$ 47 billion in Argentine pesos. These amounts total Ch$ 2,053 billion in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Chilean pesos. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2013, our operating cash flows were Ch$ 1,737 billion (before consolidation adjustments) of which: • Ch$ 479 billion, or 28%, came from Colombia; • Ch$ 463 billion, or 27%, came from Brazil; • Ch$ 447 billion, or 26%, came from Chile; • Ch$ 175 billion, or 10%, came from Peru; and • Ch$ 173 billion, or 10%, came from Argentina We are involved in litigation proceedings. We are currently involved in various litigation proceedings, which could result in unfavorable decisions or financial penalties against us, and we will continue to be subject to future litigation proceedings, which could cause material adverse consequences to our business. For example, in December 2013, a court granted an injunction in favor of local fishermen ordering a temporary shutdown of our Bocamina II facility. While we are appealing the case, the plant remains shut down and our operating income is reduced between US$ 20 million and US$ 44 million each month the facility is shut down. Our financial condition or results from operations could be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in defending this litigation or other lawsuits and proceedings against us. 24 Table of Contents The values of our generation subsidiaries’ long-term energy supply contracts are subject to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities and other factors. We have economic exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities as a result of the long-term energy sales contracts into which we have entered. We and our subsidiaries have material obligations as selling parties under long-term fixed-price electricity sales contracts. Prices in these contracts are indexed according to different commodities, the exchange rate, inflation, and the market price of electricity. Adverse changes to these indices would reduce the rates we charge under our long-term fixed-price electricity sales contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our controlling shareholders may have conflicts of interest relating to our business. Enel owns 92.1% of Endesa Spain, which in turn beneficially owns 60.6% of Enersis’ share capital. Our controlling shareholders have the power to determine the outcome of most material matters that require shareholders’ votes, such as the election of the majority of our board members and, subject to contractual and legal restrictions, the distribution of dividends. Our controlling shareholders also can exercise influence over our business strategy and operations. Their interests may in some cases differ from those of the other shareholders. Enel and Endesa Spain conduct their business operations in the field of renewable energies in South America through Enel Green Power S.p.A., in which we do not have an equity interest. Environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate and other factors may cause delays, impede the development of new projects or increase the costs of operations and capital expenditures. Our operating subsidiaries are subject to environmental regulations which, among other things, require us to perform environmental impact studies for future projects and obtain permits from both local and national regulators. The approval of these environmental impact studies may take longer than planned and may be withheld by governmental authorities. Local communities and ethnic and environmental activists, among others, may intervene in the approval process to delay or prevent a project’s development. They may also seek injunctive or other relief, which could negatively impact us if they are successful. Environmental regulations for existing and future generation capacity may become stricter, requiring increased capital investments. For example, Decree 13 of the Chilean Ministry of the Environment promulgated in January 2011, and published in June 2011, defined stricter emission standards for thermoelectric plants that must be met between 2014 and 2016 and stricter standards for new facilities or additional capacity. In 2009, we presented our 740 MW coal fueled Punta Alcalde project for environmental approval in Chile. In 2012, the regional environmental authority rejected the project. We appealed to the Council of Ministers. Even though the Council unanimously reversed the decision of the environmental authority, the Court of Appeals accepted four injunctions against us in early 2013. Ultimately, the Chilean Supreme Court ruled that the project could proceed in January 2014. In addition to environmental matters, there are other factors that may adversely affect our ability to build new facilities or to complete projects currently under development on time, including delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, shortages or increases in the price of equipment, materials or labor, strikes, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, accidents, or other unforeseen events. Delays or modifications to any proposed project and laws or regulations may change or be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect our operations or our plans for companies in which we hold investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by judicial decisions on environmental qualification resolutions for electricity projects in Chile. The environmental qualification resolutions term for electricity generation or transmission projects in Chile has more than doubled, due primarily to judicial decisions against such projects, environmental opposition, social criticism and government delays. This can cast doubt on the ability of a project to obtain such approval, and increase the uncertainty for investing in electricity generation and transmission projects in Chile. The uncertainty is forcing companies to reassess their business strategies as the delay in the construction of electricity generation and transmission projects may result in a supply constraints over the next five or six years. If any plant within the system ceases operation unexpectedly, we could experience supply shortages in our system, which could lead to power cuts. For example, in August 2008, the HidroAysén environmental impact assessment study was submitted for approval. In May 2011, a favorable environmental qualification resolution was reached. In June 2011, HidroAysén filed an appeal with the Council of Ministers requesting its review of certain conditions established by the environmental authorities. On January 30, 2014, the Council of Ministers met to review the appeals and the majority of them were resolved. The Council of Ministers requested new background information and studies in order for the Council to perform a new evaluation and issue its decision regarding the project. In March 2014, Chilean President Michelle Bachelet took office and a new Council of Ministers was convened, which repealed the decisions taken in January 2014. The new Council stated it would study the issue again and resolve all claims within the 60 business day timeframe established by law. Our power plant projects may encounter significant opposition from groups that may ultimately damage our reputation and could result in impairment of goodwill with stakeholders. Our reputation is the foundation of our relationship with key stakeholders and other constituencies. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, which could negatively impact sentiments toward us, our ability to operate could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. The development of new power plants may face opposition from several stakeholders, such as ethnic groups, environmental groups, land owners, farmers, local communities and political parties, among others, all of which may impact the sponsoring company’s reputation and goodwill. For example, our HidroAysén project has encountered substantial opposition by environmental activists. Such groups are sometimes financed internationally and may receive global attention. Similarly, the El Quimbo hydroelectric project in Colombia faced constant social demands that have delayed construction and increased costs. Between August 16, 2013 and September 9, 2013, a national agricultural strike involving communities near the project blocked roads and occupied neighboring lands. The operation of our current thermal power plants may also affect our goodwill with stakeholders, due to emissions such as particulate matter, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which could adversely affect the environment. Damage to our reputation may exert considerable pressure on regulators, creditors, and other stakeholders, and ultimately lead to projects and operations that may not be optimal, cause our share prices to drop and hinder our ability to attract or retain valuable employees, all of which could result in an impairment of goodwill with stakeholders. 26 Table of Contents Our business may experience adverse consequences if we are unable to reach satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with our unionized employees. A large percentage of our employees are members of unions and have collective bargaining agreements that must be renewed on a regular basis. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by a failure to reach agreement with any labor union representing such employees or by an agreement with a labor union that contains terms we view as unfavorable. The laws of many of the countries in which we operate provide legal mechanisms for judicial authorities to impose a collective agreement if the parties are unable to come to an agreement, which may increase our costs beyond what we have budgeted. In addition, we employ many highly-specialized employees, and certain actions such as strikes, walk-outs or work stoppages by these employees could negatively impact our operating and financial performance, as well as our reputation. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems or external attacks to or invasions of these systems could have an adverse effect on our operations and results. We depend on information technology, communication and processing systems (“IT Systems”) to operate our businesses, the failure of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. IT Systems are all vital to our generation subsidiaries’ ability to monitor our power plants’ operations, maintain generation and network performance, adequately generate invoices to customers, achieve operating efficiencies and meet our service targets and standards. Our distribution subsidiaries could also be affected adversely since they rely heavily on IT systems to monitor their grids, billing processes for millions of customers and customer service platforms, among others. Temporary or long-lasting operational failures of any of these IT Systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, cyber attacks can have an adverse effect on the company’s image and its relationship with the community. In the last few years, global cyber attacks on security systems, treasury operations, and IT Systems have intensified. We are exposed to cyber-terrorist attacks aimed at damaging our assets through computer networks, cyber spying involving strategic information that may be beneficial for third parties and cyber-theft of proprietary and confidential information, including information of our customers. During 2013, we suffered a cyber attack organized by a group known as “Operation Green Rights” to protest the construction of proposed hydroelectric power plants in the Chilean Patagonia as well as other cyber attacks related to the operation of thermal power plants in the north and south of Chile. We rely on electricity transmission facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities do not provide us with an adequate transmission service, we may not be able to deliver the power we sell to our final customers. We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other unaffiliated power companies to deliver the electricity we sell. This dependence exposes us to several risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our electricity. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of sales costs and profits may be insufficient. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, transmission companies upon whom we rely may not have sufficient incentives to invest in expansion of their transmission infrastructure, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. On February 27, 2010, due to the 8.8 magnitude earthquake on the Richter scale in Chile, Transelec, a transmission company unrelated to us, experienced damage to its high voltage transmission network that prevented us from delivering our electricity to final consumers. On September 24, 2011, nearly 10 million people located in central Chile experienced a blackout (affecting more than half of all Chileans), due to the failure of Transelec’s 220 kV Ancoa substation. The failure led to the disruption of two 500 kV transmission lines in the SIC (the Chilean Central Interconnected System) and the subsequent failure of the remote recovery computer software used by CDEC to operate the grid. This blackout, which lasted two hours, exposed weaknesses in the transmission grid and its need for expansion and technological improvements to increase the reliability of the transmission grid. Any such failure could interrupt our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents The relative illiquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets could adversely affect the price of our common stock and ADS. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be affected materially by developments in other emerging markets. The low liquidity of the Chilean market may impair the ability of holders of ADS to sell shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS program into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time they wish to do so. Lawsuits against us brought outside of the South American countries in which we operate or complaints against us based on foreign legal concepts may be unsuccessful. All of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States and most of their assets are located outside the United States as well. If any investor were to bring a lawsuit against our directors, officers, or experts in the United States, it may be difficult for them to effect service of legal process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them, in United States or Chilean courts, judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile on the basis of liability based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. 