ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Failure to Generate Sufficient Cash Flows Could Limit our Ability to Pay Distributions to Shareholders Mid-America’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common dividends to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. Funds from operations and the value of Mid-America’s apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. Such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in Mid-America’s markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; Mid-America’s inability to rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; 8 changes in tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; an uninsured loss, resulting from a catastrophic storm or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase Mid-America’s acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. At times, Mid-America relies on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). While Mid-America has sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event Mid-America would be required to reduce the distribution rate. Any decline in Mid-America’s funds from operations could adversely affect Mid-America’s ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on Mid-America’s stock price. Debt Level, Refinancing and Loan Covenant Risk May Adversely Affect Financial Condition and Operating Results and Our Ability to Maintain Our Status as a REIT At December 31, 2006, Mid-America had total debt outstanding of $1.2 billion. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave Mid-America with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for Mid-America to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Mid-America currently intends to limit our total debt to approximately 60% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. Circumstances may cause Mid-America to exceed that target from time-to-time. As of December 31, 2006, Mid-America’s ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 52%. Mid-America’s Board of Directors can modify this policy at any time which could allow Mid-America to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, Mid-America must repay its debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect Mid-America’s financial condition and/or our funds from operations. Mid-America relies on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and has agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants. The breach of any one of these covenants would place Mid-America in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on the operations of Mid-America. Variable Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Funds from Operations At December 31, 2006, effectively $226 million of Mid-America’s debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. Mid-America may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. Variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect Mid-America’s funds from operations and the amounts available to pay distributions to shareholders. Mid-America’s $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with Prudential Mortgage Capital, credit enhanced by Fannie Mae, are predominately floating rate facilities. Mid-America also has credit facilities with Freddie Mac totaling $300 million which are variable rate facilities. At December 31, 2006, a total of $988 million was outstanding under these facilities. These facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates Mid-America was exposed to at December 31, 2006. Large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. Upon the termination of these swaps and caps, Mid-America will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. 9 Issuances of Additional Debt or Equity May Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy rates of our apartment communities, dividend payment rates to our shareholders, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. Mid-America cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, Mid-America may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Accordingly, Mid-America could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. Increasing Real Estate Taxes and Insurance Costs May Negatively Impact Financial Condition Because Mid-America has substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring its apartment communities is a significant component of expense. Real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of the control of Mid-America. If the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, Mid-America’s financial condition could be negatively impacted and Mid-America’s ability to pay our dividend could be affected. Losses from Catastrophes May Exceed Our Insurance Coverage Mid-America carries comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities, and intends to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. Mid-America exercises our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. If Mid-America suffers a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Property Insurance Limits May be Inadequate and Deductibles May be Excessive in the Event of a Catastrophic Loss or a Series of Major Losses, and May Cause a Breach of a Loan Covenant Mid-America has a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the New Madrid earthquake zone. A major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that Mid-America pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the $40 million per occurrence limit of Mid-America’s insurance for these risks. Mid-America may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on Mid-America’s assets, financial condition, and results of operation. New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and Failure to Integrate Acquired Communities and New Personnel Could Create Inefficiencies Mid-America intends to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. Mid-America may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. Additionally, to grow successfully, Mid-America must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. Mid-America must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. Failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. Mid-America May Not Be Able To Sell Communities When Appropriate Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. Mid-America may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. 10 Environmental Problems are Possible and Can be Costly Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. All of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. These environmental assessments have not revealed, nor is Mid-America aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Over the past four years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. Mid-America cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to Mid-America, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. Compliance or Failure to Comply with Laws Requiring Access to Our Properties by Disabled Persons Could Result in Substantial Cost The Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require Mid-America to modify our existing communities. These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require Mid-America to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on Mid-America with respect to improved access by disabled persons. Mid-America cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. Our Ownership Limit Restricts the Transferability of Our Capital Stock Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, owning 50% or more of our shares. If you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. If we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: (a) the price you paid for the shares; or 11 (b) the average of the last reported sales prices on the New York Stock Exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our Board of Directors. If you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. Provisions of Our Charter and Tennessee Law May Limit the Ability of a Third Party to Acquire Control of Us Ownership Limit The 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors. Preferred Stock Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders’ best interests. Currently, we have the following amounts of preferred stock issued and outstanding: 474,500 shares of 9 1/4% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock; 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. Tennessee Anti-Takeover Statutes As a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our Investments in Joint Ventures May Involve Risks Investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. Although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner’s interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Cause Mid-America to be Taxed as a Corporation If Mid-America fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, Mid-America will be taxed as a corporation. The Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. For any taxable year that Mid-America fails to qualify as a REIT, Mid-America would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate 12 rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. In addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, Mid-America would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. In addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve REIT status. Mid-America might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a REIT. Failure to Make Required Distributions Would Subject Mid-America to Income Taxation In order to qualify as a REIT, each year Mid-America must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). To the extent that Mid-America satisfies the distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. In addition, Mid-America will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require Mid-America to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. Complying with REIT Requirements May Cause Mid-America to Forgo Otherwise Attractive Opportunities or Engage in Marginal Investment Opportunities To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, Mid-America must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of Mid-America’s stock. In order to meet these tests, Mid-America may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder Mid-America’s ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 