D. Risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Operations Since our business depends heavily on hydrological conditions, drought conditions may hurt our profitability. Approximately 68% of our consolidated installed capacity in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru is hydroelectric. Accordingly, adverse hydrological conditions affect our business and have a substantial influence over our results. During periods of drought, thermal plants, including those that use natural gas, fuel oil or coal as a fuel, are dispatched more frequently. Our operating expenses increase during these periods and, depending on the size of our commitments, we may have to buy electricity from other parties in order to comply with our contractual supply obligations. The cost of these electricity purchases in the spot market may exceed the price at which we sell contracted electricity, thus producing losses from those contracts. In 2000, our generation subsidiaries established a commercial and risk-reduction policy in order to mitigate the potential impact of interruptions to our ability to supply electricity, including those caused by droughts, interruptions in gas supply and prolonged plant stoppages. Pursuant to this policy, a volume of contracts is determined for each generation company that reduces the risks to acceptable levels, assured by a degree of statistical reliability of 95%. Any contracts for volumes that exceed this 95% level are required to include clauses transferring the risk of interruptions to the customers. Notwithstanding this risk-reduction policy, a prolonged drought could adversely affect our results. Regulatory authorities may impose fines on our subsidiaries. In Chile, our electricity businesses may be subject to regulatory fines for any breach of current regulations, including energy supply failure. As of December 31, 2005, such fines may range from 1 Unidad Tributaria Mensual (“UTM”), equivalent to approximately U.S.$ 62, to 10,000 Unidades Tributarias Anuales (“UTA”), equivalent to approximately U.S.$ 7.4 million. Any electricity company supervised by the Chilean Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels, or SEF, may be subject to these fines, which apply in cases where, in the opinion of the SEF, operational failures that affect the regular energy supply to the system are the fault of such company. These fines may be appealed. An electricity company supervised by the SEF may be subject to fines when the electricity system is affected by operating failures, even when it is not within such company’s power to react to prevent such failures. 10 Our generation and distribution subsidiaries may be required to pay fines or to compensate customers if those subsidiaries are unable to deliver electricity to them even if such failure is due to forces outside of our control. For example, in 1999 Argentine regulators required us to pay approximately U.S.$ 59 million in fines as a consequence of electricity outages resulting from a fire in one of our distribution substations belonging to Edesur. The imposition of these penalties in Argentina increased our operating costs significantly and was not accounted for under the tariff structure that determines our revenues. Although we received compensation from the contractor responsible for the fire, there can be no assurance that we will receive compensation from third parties in the event of any future delivery failure. Our profitability will be affected adversely if we are required to pay penalties and fines. On August 14, 2003, the SEF imposed fines on some of our Chilean generation subsidiaries in an aggregate amount of 5,330 UTA, equivalent to approximately U.S.$ 3.9 million, due to a failure in the transmission of energy in the Metropolitan Region on September 23, 2002. On April 27 and May 3, 2004, the SEF imposed fines on both Endesa Chile and Chilectra in an aggregate amount of 3,860 UTA, equivalent to approximately U.S.$ 2.9 million, due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region on January 13, 2003. On July 4, 2005, the SEF imposed fines of 1,260 UTA, equivalent to approximately to U.S.$ 0.9 million, on Endesa Chile due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region on November 7, 2003. Our subsidiaries are currently appealing these fines, but these appeals may not be successful. Governmental regulations may impose additional operating costs which may reduce our profits. We are subject to extensive regulation of tariffs and other aspects of our business in the countries in which we operate, and these regulations may affect our profitability adversely. In addition, changes in the regulatory framework, including changes that if adopted would significantly affect our operations, are frequently submitted to the legislators and administrative authorities in the countries in which we operate, and could have a material adverse impact on our business. Electricity rationing in Chile. If our Chilean generation subsidiaries are unable to comply with their contractual obligations during electricity rationing periods, we may be subject to higher operating costs. The Chilean government can impose electricity rationing during drought conditions or prolonged failures in the country’s thermoelectric facilities. If, during rationing, we are unable to generate enough electricity to comply with our contractual obligations, we may be forced to buy electricity in the pool market at the spot price, since a drought can no longer constitute a force majeure event. The spot price may be significantly higher than our costs to generate the electricity and can be as high as the “cost of failure” set by the Comisión Nacional de Energía (National Energy Commission), or the CNE. The “cost of failure” is determined by the CNE’s economic models as the highest cost of electricity during periods of electricity deficit. If we are unable to buy enough electricity in the pool market to comply with all our contractual obligations, then we would have to compensate our regulated customers for the volume we failed to provide at the “rationed end-consumer price.” If rationing policies are imposed by regulatory authorities in Chile, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected adversely in a material way. In similar way, if rationing policies are imposed by any regulatory authority as a result of adverse hydrological conditions in the countries in which we operate, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Rationing periods may occur in the future, and consequently our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay regulatory penalties if such subsidiaries fail to provide adequate service under such conditions. Approximately 76% of the installed capacity of our Chilean generation subsidiaries is hydroelectric. These generation companies own unlimited duration unconditional and absolute property water rights granted by the Chilean Water Authority. However, in March 2005, Chilean Congress approved a modification to the current laws governing unused water rights. Under the amended law, beginning on January 1, 2006, Chilean generation companies will have to pay an annual license for unused water rights. We are constantly analyzing which water rights we will maintain for the future and which we will disregard. If we determine that some water rights will not be used for a future project, we will abandon such water rights in order to avoid liability for license payments. We estimate that in the event that we do not abandon any water rights in the SIC, we will have to pay license fees aggregating no more than 5,773 UTA (or U.S.$ 4.3 million per year). License fee payments carried out during the 11 eight years before the commencement of any project, or the use of such water rights, may be recovered through a tax credit that is applied monthly until the license fee payments are recovered in full. In the case of water rights located in the extreme south of Chile (in particular, the Eleventh and Twelfth Regions, outside the area comprised by the SIC), the license payments will be paid starting as of January 1, 2012, using the same tax refund regime mentioned above for the SIC. In May 2001, the Ministry of Economy issued Resolution 88, under which electricity generators such as ours are required to provide electricity to distribution companies that have been unable to contract an adequate supply to deliver to their customers. The last amendment to the electricity law, called Short Law II, established a mechanism of transitory compensations, under which until December 31, 2008, energy sales derived from Resolution 88 must be carried out at the spot price. Short Law II therefore temporarily alleviates for our subsidiaries some of the pricing risks implicit in Resolution 88. For a more complete discussion of this topic, see “Item 