ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had $685.5 of total debt outstanding. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes and our other indebtedness. A discussion of our debt is contained in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There is $400.0 of availability under our $400.0 five-year revolving credit facility, which expires June 2012, and $77.3 of availability under various non-U.S. credit facilities. The requirements to meet - 10 - Table of Contents financial ratios could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with those covenants and terms, we will be in default. In this case, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance. If we were unable to obtain any necessary waivers, the amounts outstanding under this agreement could be accelerated, and become immediately due and payable, and we would not be able to borrow any additional funds under the agreement while such default continued. Our ability to fully utilize our facility is limited by our actual calculated Debt Covenant Ratios as compared to the maximum Debt Covenant Ratio permitted under the agreement. We would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain the full use of the revolver if our actual calculated Debt Covenant Ratios were expected to exceed the maximum Debt Covenant Ratios permitted under the agreement, and as a result, we believe our financing costs would be significantly higher. Disposition or restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, acquisition intangible impairment, or other asset impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw certain product lines. Additionally, management regularly reviews the cost effectiveness of its plant sites and/or assets at such sites. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $90.2 in 2009 principally related to plant closures and employee severance. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis each October 1st and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible asset may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. For example, in connection with our annual goodwill impairment test in 2008, we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 a $385.0 ($358.3 after-tax) non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our Coating Resins reporting unit, comprised primarily of our former Surface Specialties reporting unit. In total, we had goodwill of $701.9 and acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $399.5 at December 31, 2009. See Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion on our goodwill impairment testing. We may be adversely impacted by increased costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for employees in the United States and various foreign locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial results and financial position. Prices and availability of raw materials could adversely affect our operations. Loss of certain significant customers may have an adverse effect on results of the affected segment and loss of several significant customers may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Customers and Suppliers” We face active competition from other companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Competition” We face numerous risks relating to our international operations that may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – International” Our production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Operating Risks” - 11 - Table of Contents We are subject to significant environmental and product regulatory expenses and risks. See “Item 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters” We are subject to significant litigation expense and risk. See “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” A further worsening of global economic conditions coupled with a lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customer’s demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable with us and/or their viability. During 2009, certain customers in our Specialty Chemicals segments and Building Block Chemical segment experienced financial difficulties. Certain customers filed for bankruptcy protection as a result of the prevailing economic conditions of 2009, especially in the first half of the year. We attempt to mitigate the risks associated with extending credit to our customers by maintaining detailed credit procedures and routinely updating customer credit limits. It is possible that these procedures will not fully mitigate customer collectability risk. Our results of operations in 2009 were not significantly impacted by the inability of our customers to pay. However, the risks associated with extending credit to our customers could increase if global economic conditions or the financial viability of our customers worsen. A further worsening of global economic conditions could also adversely impact our supplier’s ability to supply our raw materials requirements. The economic conditions that prevailed for most of 2009 impacted our suppliers in many of the same ways that such conditions impacted us. If economic conditions further deteriorate or the financial viability of our suppliers worsens, our suppliers may not be able to meet their raw material commitments to us, could request shortened payment terms, or could reduce or in extreme cases eliminate the amount of credit they extend to us. Our operations in 2009 were not significantly impacted by these factors due to the diversity of our supplier base and our materials sourcing strategies. However, it is possible that such procedures and strategy may not completely eliminate these risks. If the current global economic weakness worsens or continues for an extended period, it could significantly impact our results of operations and cash flows. This could impact our ability to fund certain investments for growth, could cause a significant reduction in global operations, our ability to borrow and impact our current credit rating. The economic conditions of 2009 and the resulting downturn in the global economy especially impacted the automotive, construction and general industrial markets that we serve and led to a significant reduction in our sales and operating profitability. If economic conditions further deteriorate we may be forced to take additional cost reduction initiatives that could lead to further reductions in profitability and could jeopardize our ability to fund growth programs designed to position us for success when economic conditions improve. Further, the reduced profitability and cash generation that would be triggered by a further weakening of economic conditions, could limit the amounts we can borrow under our primary credit facility due to the covenants contained in the agreement and could unfavorably impact our credit rating. In both instances, our ability to borrow could be limited and thus our liquidity adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 12 - Table of Contents 