D. Risk Factors. A financial crisis in any region worldwide can have a significant impact in the countries in which we operate, and consequently, may adversely affect our operations, as well as our liquidity. The five countries in which we operate are vulnerable to external shocks, which could cause significant economic difficulties and affect their growth. In case any of these economies experience a lower economic growth or a recession, it is likely that our customers will demand less electricity, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. Furthermore, some of our customers may experience difficulties in paying their electricity bills, and an increase in uncollectible accounts would also affect our results adversely. In addition, a financial crisis and its disruptive effect on the financial industry can have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain new bank loans under normal terms and conditions. Our ability to tap the capital markets in the five countries where we operate, as well as the international capital markets for other sources of liquidity, may also be diminished, or such financing may be available only at higher interest levels. Reduced liquidity could, in turn, affect our capital expenditures, our long-term investments and acquisitions, our growth prospects, and our dividend payout policy. South American economic fluctuations are likely to affect our results from operations and financial condition, as well as the value of our securities. All of our operations are located in five South American countries. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues are sensitive to the performance of South American economies as a whole. If local, regional or worldwide economic trends adversely affect the economy of any of the five countries in which we have investments or operations, our financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, we have investments in relatively risky countries such as Argentina. Generation and distribution of cash from subsidiaries located in this country have proven to be volatile. A substantial portion of our operations are located in Chile and Brazil and more than 65% of our operating revenues in 2010 were derived from our operations, making our financial condition and results of operations particularly dependent on the performance of these two economies. In 2010, Chilean GDP increased by 5.2% compared to a 1.7% decrease in 2009. The latest estimate from the Chilean Central Bank forecast growth for 2011, is in the 5.5% - 6.5% range. In 2010, Brazilian GDP increased by 7.5% compared to a 0.2% decrease in 2009. The consensus forecast according to the Brazilian Central Bank is a growth of 4.1% in 2011. However, such growth may not be achieved and the growth trend may not be sustainable in the future in one or both of that countries. Future developments in the Chilean and Brazilian economies may impair our ability to proceed with our strategic plans and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the South American financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country may have a significant contagion effect on the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile and Brazil. Chilean and Brazilian financial and securities markets may be adversely affected by events in other countries and such effects may affect the value of our securities. Certain South American economies have been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by governmental authorities, which may adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities have changed monetary, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of the economies of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. To a lesser extent, the Chilean government has also exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, which may result in changes to economic or other policies. These governmental actions, intended to control inflation and affect other policies, have often involved wage, price and tariff rate controls as well as other interventionist measures, which in Argentina included freezing bank accounts and imposing capital restrictions in 2001, the nationalization of the private sector pension funds in 2008, and the use of Central Bank reserves of the Argentine Treasury in order to pay down indebtedness maturing in 2010. Changes in the policies of these governmental authorities with respect to tariff rates, exchange controls, regulations and taxation could adversely affect our business and financial results, reducing our profitability, as could inflation, devaluation, social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments, including the response by governments in the region to these circumstances. 17 Table of Contents Our electricity business is subject to risks arising from natural disasters, catastrophic accidents and acts of terrorism, which could adversely affect our operations, earnings and cash flow. Our primary facilities include power plants, transmission and distribution assets, pipelines, LNG terminals and re-gasification plants, storage and chartered LNG tankers. Our facilities may be damaged by earthquakes, flooding, fires, other catastrophic disasters arising from natural or accidental human causes, as well as acts of terrorism. We could experience severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues based on lower demand arising from catastrophic events, or significant additional costs to us not otherwise covered by business interruption insurance clauses. There may be an important time lag between a major accident or catastrophic event and the final reimbursement from our insurance policies, which typically carry non-recoverable deductible amounts, and in any event are subject to caps per event. We are subject to refinancing risk and to debt covenants that could affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, our debt in financial terms was $ 7,579 million while, for accounting purposes, it totaled $ 7,864 million. These amounts differ since financial debt, unlike accounting debt, does not include accrued interest. Our financial debt had the following maturity timetable: · $ 1,268 million in 2011; · $ 1,021 million in 2012; · $ 2,693 million in the 2013-2015 period; and · $ 2,596 million thereafter. Set forth below is a breakdown by country of financial debt maturing in 2011: · $ 66 million — Chile; · $ 173 million — Argentina; · $ 643 million — Brazil; · $ 265 million — Colombia; and · $ 121 million — Peru. Our debt agreements are subject to certain debt-to-EBITDA and debt-to-equity financial covenant ratios, among others. They also contain common affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default, and in some cases, mandatory prepayment events. As is customary for certain credit and capital market debt facilities, a significant portion of Enersis and Endesa Chile’s financial indebtedness is subject to cross default provisions, with different definitions, criteria, materiality thresholds, and applicability as to the subsidiaries that could give rise to a cross default. In the event that any of our cross default provisions is triggered and our existing creditors demand immediate repayment, a portion of our indebtedness could become due and payable. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or obtain such refinancing on terms acceptable to us. In the absence of such refinancing, we could be forced to dispose of assets in order to make up for any shortfall in the payments due on our indebtedness under circumstances that might not be favorable to obtaining the best price for such assets. Furthermore, assets may not be sold quickly enough, or for amounts sufficient to enable us to make such payments. As of the date of this report, Argentina continues to be the country with the highest refinancing risk. As of December 31, 2010, the third-party financial debt of our Argentine subsidiaries amounted to $ 360.2 million. As a matter of policy for all of our Argentine subsidiaries as long as fundamental issues concerning the electricity sector remain unresolved, we are rolling over our Argentine outstanding debt. If our creditors do not continue to accept rolling over debt principal when it becomes due and we are unable to refinance such obligations, we may default on such indebtedness. For more information on covenants, cross default and relevant provisions for of credit facilities, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 18 Table of Contents Since our generation business depends heavily on hydrological conditions, drought conditions may hurt our profitability. Approximately 58% of our consolidated installed generation capacity in 2010 was hydroelectric. Accordingly, extreme hydrological conditions may affect our business and may have an adverse effect on our results. During periods of drought, thermal plants, such as ours that use natural gas, fuel oil or coal as a fuel, are dispatched more frequently. Operating costs of thermal plants might be considerably higher than those of hydroelectric plants. Our operating expenses increase during these periods, and depending on our commercial obligations, we may have to buy electricity from the spot market in order to comply with our contractual supply obligations. The cost of these electricity purchases may exceed the price at which we sell contracted electricity, thus producing losses from those contracts. Governmental regulations may impose additional operating costs which may reduce our profits. We are subject to extensive regulation of tariffs and other aspects of our business in the five countries in which we operate, and these regulations may adversely affect our profitability. For example, the Chilean government can impose electricity rationing during drought conditions or prolonged failures in power facilities. On February 9, 2011, the Ministry of Energy promulgated a rationing decree that will be in effect from February 17, 2011 to August 31, 2011. If, during rationing, we are unable to generate enough electricity to comply with our contractual obligations, we may be forced to buy electricity in the pool market at the spot price, since even a severe drought does not constitute a force majeure event. The spot price may be significantly higher than our costs to generate the electricity and can be as high as the “cost of failure” set by the National Energy Commission, or the CNE. This “cost of failure,” which is updated semiannually by the CNE, is a measurement of how much final users would pay for one extra MWh under rationing conditions. If we are unable to buy enough electricity in the pool market to comply with all of our contractual obligations, then we would have to compensate our regulated customers for the electricity we failed to provide at the rationed price. If material rationing policies are imposed by regulatory authorities in Chile, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Similarly, if material rationing policies are imposed by the local regulatory authority in the other countries in which we operate, as a result of adverse hydrological conditions, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Rationing periods may occur in the future, and consequently our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay regulatory penalties if such subsidiaries fail to provide adequate service under such conditions. In addition, changes in the regulatory framework, including changes that if adopted would significantly affect our operations, are often submitted to the legislators and administrative authorities in the countries in which we operate and, if approved, could have a material adverse impact on our business. For instance, in 2005 there was a change in the water rights law in Chile that requires us to pay for unused water rights. Regulatory authorities may impose fines on our subsidiaries. Our electricity businesses may be subject to regulatory fines for any breach of current regulations, including energy supply failure, in the five countries in which we operate. In Chile, such fines may range from 1 Unidad Tributaria Mensual (UTM), or $ 80, to 10,000 Unidades Tributarias Anuales (UTA), or $ 9.6 million, in each case using the UTM, UTA and foreign exchange rate as of December 31, 2010. In Peru, fines can reach a maximum of 1,300 Unidad Impositiva Tributaria (UIT) or $ 1.7 million as of December 31, 2010; in Colombia fines may range from $ 2,900 to $ 0.6 million; in Argentina, there is no maximum limit for the fines and in Brazil fines may range from $ 0.1 to $ 35.3 million. Our electricity subsidiaries, supervised by their local regulatory entities, may be subject to these fines in cases where, in the opinion of the regulatory entity, operational failures that affect the regular energy supply to the system are the fault of the company; for instance, when the agents are not coordinated with the system operation. Also, our subsidiaries may be required to pay fines or to compensate customers if those subsidiaries are unable to deliver electricity to them even if such failure is due to forces outside of our control. For example, in Chile in 2005, the Superintendencia de Electricidad y Combustibles (Chilean Superintendence of Electricity and Fuels), or SEF, imposed fines of 1,260 UTA, or $ 1.1 million, on Endesa Chile due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region in 2003. On February 17, 2009, the SEF imposed fines on Endesa Chile, Pehuenche and San Isidro for 200 UTA, 200 UTA and 100 UTA, respectively, or $ 0.4 million in total. Also in 2009, the SEF fined Chilectra for 2,000 UTA, or $ 1.7 million, due to billing management procedures challenged by our customers. In June 2009, the SEF imposed fines on Chilectra in the amount of 1,630 UTA, or $ 1.4 million, due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region in 2004. In the case of our foreign subsidiaries, for example, in 2006 in Peru the Comité de Operación 19 Table of Contents Económica del Sistema (Peruvian Economic Operating Committee of the Interconnected System), or COES-SINAC, ordered Edegel to pay approximately $ 1.3 million to other generating companies that were forced to compensate their clients due to an alleged failure of Edegel to comply with certain quality parameters. In January 2011, ENRE imposed fines on Edesur in the amount of $ 1.3 million due to a blackout that occurred in Buenos Aires during the last days of December 2010. Also, as compensation to end users with respect to the same blackout, ENRE imposed an additional fine for $ 14.9 million. We depend in part on payments from our subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities and associates to meet our payment obligations. We have no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay our obligations depends on cash from dividends, loans, interest payments, capital reductions and other distributions from our subsidiaries and equity affiliates. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends, interest payments, loans and other distributions to us is subject to legal constraints such as dividend restrictions, fiduciary duties, contractual limitations and foreign exchange controls that may be imposed in any of the five countries where they operate. Historically, we have been able to access the cash flows of our Chilean subsidiaries, but we have not been similarly able to access at all times the cash flows of our non-Chilean operating subsidiaries due to government regulations, strategic considerations, economic conditions and credit restrictions. Our future results from operations outside Chile may continue to be subject to greater economic and political uncertainties than what we have experienced in Chile, thereby reducing the likelihood that we will be able to rely on cash flows from operations in those entities to repay our debt. Dividend Limits and Other Legal Restrictions. Some of our non-Chilean subsidiaries are subject to legal reserve requirements and other restrictions on dividend payments. Also, other legal restrictions, such as foreign currency controls, may limit the ability of our non-Chilean subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends and make loan payments or other distributions to us. In addition, the ability of any of our subsidiaries which are not wholly-owned to distribute cash to us may be limited by the fiduciary duties of the directors of such subsidiaries to their minority shareholders. Furthermore, some of our subsidiaries may be forced by local authorities, according to applicable regulation, to diminish or eliminate dividend payments, such as the temporary restrictions for distributing dividends faced by our Argentine subsidiary, Edesur, during 2009 and 2010. As a consequence of such restrictions, our subsidiaries could, under certain circumstances, be prevented from distributing cash to us. Contractual Constraints. Distribution restrictions included in some credit agreements of our subsidiaries Endesa Costanera, El Chocón, CIEN and Endesa Fortaleza may prevent dividend distributions and other distributions to shareholders if they are not in compliance with certain financial ratios. Generally, companies are not allowed to make any kind of distribution in case of default on credit agreements. Operating Results of Our Subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends or make loan payments or other distributions to us is limited by their operating results. To the extent that the cash requirements at any of our subsidiaries exceed available cash, such subsidiary will not be able to make cash available to us. Foreign exchange risks may adversely affect our results, and the dollar value of dividends payable to ADS holders. Most South American currencies in which we and our subsidiaries operate have been subject to large devaluations and appreciations against the dollar and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Historically, a significant portion of our consolidated indebtedness has been denominated in dollars and, although a substantial portion of our revenues are linked to dollars, we generally have been and will continue to be materially exposed to fluctuations of our local currencies against the dollar because of time lags and other limitations to peg our tariffs to the dollar. Because of this exposure, the cash generated by our subsidiaries can decrease substantially when local currencies devalue against the dollar. Future volatility in the exchange rate of the currencies in which we receive revenues or incur expenditures, may affect our financial condition and results from operations. For more information on the risks associated with foreign exchange rates, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” As of December 31, 2010, using financial rather than accounting conventions, Enersis’s total consolidated financial debt was $ 7,579 million (net of currency hedging instruments). Of this amount $ 2,243 million, or 29.6%, was denominated in dollars and $ 1,541 million in pesos. In addition to the dollar and the peso, our foreign currency denominated consolidated indebtedness included the equivalent of: 20 Table of Contents · $ 174 million in Argentine pesos; · $ 1,590 million in reais; · $ 0.3 million in euros; · $ 1,581million in Colombian pesos; and · $ 450 million in soles. This totals an aggregate of $ 3,795 million in currencies other than dollars or pesos. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2010, our operating revenues amounted to $ 15,870 million (before consolidation adjustments) of which: · $ 1,007 million, or 6.4%, was denominated in dollars; and · $ 2,691 million, or 16.9%, was linked in some way to the dollar. In the aggregate, 23.3% of our operating revenues (before consolidation adjustments) was either denominated in dollars or linked to dollars through some form of indexation, while 16.3% were in pesos. Revenues, before consolidation adjustments, in other currencies for the year ended December 31, 2010, included the equivalent of: · $ 1,395 million in Argentine pesos; · $ 4,822 million in reais; · $ 2,597 million in Colombian pesos; and · $ 776 million in soles. Although we generate revenues and incur debt in these same currencies, we believe that we are subject to risk in terms of our foreign exchange exposure to these four currencies. The most material case is that of our Argentine generation companies, where most of our debt is denominated in dollars while our revenues are mostly in Argentine pesos. Furthermore, trading of our common stock underlying ADS is conducted in pesos. Our depositary bank will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares underlying the ADS in pesos. The depositary bank will convert such pesos to dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect of ADS. If the peso depreciates against the dollar, the value of the ADS and any dollar distributions ADS holders receive from the depositary bank will decrease. We are involved in litigation proceedings. We are currently involved in various litigation proceedings, which could result in unfavorable decisions or financial penalties against us, and we will continue to be subject to future litigation proceedings, which could have material adverse consequences to our business. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. Some of these claims may be resolved against us. Our financial condition or results from operations could be adversely affected if certain material claims are resolved against us. See Note 22.2 of our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The values of our generation subsidiaries’ long-term energy supply contracts are subject to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities. We have economic exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities as a result of the long-term energy sales contracts we have entered into. We and our subsidiaries have material obligations as selling parties under long-term fixed-price electricity sales contracts. Prices in these contracts are indexed according to different commodities, exchange rate, inflation and the market price of electricity. During 2010, we did not carry out transactions in commodity derivative instruments to manage our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. For further discussion, please refer to “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk-Commodity Price Risk.” Our controlling shareholders may have conflicts of interest relating to our business. Enel beneficially owns 92.1% of Endesa Spain, which in turn owns 60.6% of Enersis’ share capital. Our controlling shareholders have the power to determine the outcome of most material matters that require shareholders’ votes, such as the 21 Table of Contents election of the majority of our board members and, subject to contractual and legal restrictions, the distribution of dividends. Our controlling shareholders also can exercise influence over our operations and business strategy. Their interests may in some cases differ from those of our other shareholders. Enel and Endesa Spain conduct their business in South America through us as well as through entities in which we do not have an equity interest. Environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate and other factors may cause delays or impede the development of new projects, as well as increase our costs of operations. Our operating subsidiaries are also subject to environmental regulations which, among other things, require us to perform environmental impact studies for future projects and obtain permits from both local and national regulators. Approval of these environmental impact studies may take longer than originally planned, and also, may be withheld by governmental authorities. Also, local communities, ethnic or environmental activists may intervene during the approval process in order to prevent the project’s development. They may also seek injunctive or other relief, with negative implications for us if they should succeed with their claims. In addition to environmental matters, there are other factors that may adversely affect our ability to build new facilities, including delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, shortages or increases in the price of equipment, materials or labor, strikes, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents or other unforeseen events, and the inability to obtain financing at affordable rates. In addition, delays or modifications to any proposed project and laws or regulations may change or be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect our operations or our plans for companies in which we hold investments. See “