ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below are risks, which are categorized as “Risk Factors Relating to Our Business,” “Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment” and “Risk Factors Relating to Our Employees,” that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements” that precedes Part I of this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Potential costs related to the environmental cleanup of Portland Harbor may be material to our financial position and liquidity We have been notified by the EPA under the CERCLA that we are a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) that owns or operates or formerly owned or operated sites adjacent to the Portland Harbor Superfund site (the “Site”). The precise nature and extent of any cleanup of the Site, the parties to be involved, the process to be followed for any cleanup and the allocation of the costs for any cleanup among responsible parties have not yet been determined. A group of PRPs is currently conducting a remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”) to identify and characterize the contamination at the Site and develop alternative approaches to remediation of the contamination. A separate process to allocate the costs of the RI/FS and the ultimate remedy is also currently underway. The EPA has indicated that it expects to issue a record of decision that will discuss remedial alternatives for the Site sometime in 2012. Separately, the natural resource damages trustees for the Site are conducting a process to determine the amount of natural resource damages at the Site and identify the persons liable for such damages. It is currently unclear to what extent we will be liable for environmental costs or damages associated with the Site or for natural resource damage claims or third party contribution or damage claims with respect to the Site; however, given the size of the Site, the costs to date of the RI/FS and the nature of the conditions identified to date, the total cost of the investigations, remediation and natural resource damages claims are likely to be substantial. Significant cash outflows in the future related to the Site could reduce the amount of our borrowing capacity that could otherwise be used for investment in capital expenditures and acquisitions. Because there has not been a determination of the total investigation costs, the remediation that will be required, the amount of natural resource damages or how the costs of the ongoing investigations and any remedy and natural resource damages will be allocated among the PRPs, it is not presently possible to estimate the costs which we are likely to incur in connection with the Site, although such costs could be significant and material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Contingencies – Environmental in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Consolidation in the steel industry may reduce demand for our products There has been a significant amount of consolidation in the steel industry in recent years that has included steel mills acquiring steel fabricators. This activity has been accelerated by the recent economic downturn where steel mills have acquired these customers to ensure demand for their products. If any of our significant customers were to be acquired by competing steel mills, this could reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices, reducing our revenues, or to reduce production, which could increase our unit costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant decreases in scrap metal prices may adversely impact our operating results The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the industries in which we operate are difficult to predict and are influenced by different economic conditions in domestic (where we typically acquire our raw materials) and foreign (where we typically sell a significant portion of our products) markets. Purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal and selling prices for scrap and recycled metal are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices through adjustments to our metal purchase prices, our ability to do so is limited 14 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 Table of Contents by competitive and other market factors. A significant reduction in selling prices for recycled metal may adversely impact both our operating income and our ability to recover purchase costs from end customers. Changes in the availability or price of raw materials could restrict our ability to meet our sales commitments Our businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third party suppliers. Although our cross-divisional synergies allow us to be our own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to scrap metal for SMB, we rely on other suppliers as well as industry supply conditions generally, which involves risks, including the possibility of shortages of raw materials, increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. Failure to obtain a steady supply of scrap material could both adversely impact our ability to meet sales commitments and reduce our operating margins. Failure to obtain an adequate supply of end-of-life vehicles could adversely impact our ability to attract customers and charge admission fees and reduce our parts sales. Failure to obtain raw materials such as alloys used in the steel-making process could adversely impact our ability to make steel to the specifications of our customers. Uncertain economic conditions may cause customers to be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations We enter into export ferrous sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantity, shipping terms and other contractual elements. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies, the customer typically opens a letter of credit to satisfy its obligation under the contract prior to our shipment of the cargo. Although not considered normal course of business, during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until successful completion of the letter of credit. As a result, customers may not be able to fulfill their contractual obligations in times of illiquid market conditions. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, 43% and 49%, respectively, of our trade accounts receivable balance was covered by letters of credit. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies may reduce the demand for our products A significant portion of MRB’s revenues and operating income earned is generated from sales to foreign customers, including customers located in Asia, Africa and Europe. A strong US dollar would make our products more expensive for non-US customers, which could negatively impact export sales. A strong US dollar would also make imported metal products less expensive, resulting in an increase in imports of scrap metal, scrap substitutes and steel products into the US. As a result, our products, which are made in the US, may become more expensive relative to imported raw metal and steel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in imports of foreign steel into the US may reduce domestic demand for our products Economic expansion in China and other foreign countries has affected the availability and increased the price volatility of recycled metal and steel products. Expansions and contractions in these economies can significantly affect the price of commodities used and sold by our business, as well as the price of finished steel products. Additionally, in a number of foreign countries, such as China, steel producers are generally government-owned and may therefore make production decisions based on political or other factors that do not reflect market conditions. Disruptions in foreign markets from excess steel production may encourage importers to target the US with excess capacity at aggressive prices, and existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If foreign steel production significantly exceeds consumption in those countries, imports of steel products into the US could increase, resulting in lower volumes and selling prices for SMB’s steel products. Reliance on third party shipping companies may restrict our ability to ship our products MRB and SMB generally rely on third parties to handle and transport their raw materials to their production facilities and finished products to end users. Due to factors beyond our control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in transportation infrastructure, our suppliers may be forced to increase their charges for transportation services or Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 / 15 Table of Contents otherwise reduce the availability of their vehicles or ships, and thus we may not be able to transport our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may harm our reputation. Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns Our recycling and manufacturing processes depend upon critical pieces of equipment, including shredders and furnaces, which may be out of service occasionally for scheduled upgrades or maintenance. Our equipment is also subject to failure and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our processing and production capabilities, which could inhibit our ability to meet our sales commitments and thus have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The cost and availability of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions and may restrict our ability to manufacture our products We rely on third parties for our supply of energy resources that are consumed in the manufacturing of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions which can be affected by weather conditions and political and economic factors that are beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could impair our ability to process and manufacture our products for our customers or result in increases in our energy costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill impairment charges may adversely affect our operating results We test our goodwill balances for impairment on an annual basis and if events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of the reporting segment below the reporting segment’s carrying amount. In determining fair value, we use an income approach based on the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing a market-based weighted average cost of capital. Given that market prices of our reporting segments are not readily available, we make various estimates and assumptions in determining the estimated fair values of the reporting segments, including forecasts of future sales and operating costs, prices, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, discount rates, growth rates and general market conditions. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in the factors described above. However, in light of current economic conditions, impairments to one or more of our reporting segments could occur in interim periods, whether or not connected to the annual goodwill impairment analysis. A sustained decline in the quoted market prices of our stock could denote a triggering event indicating that the fair value of goodwill may be impaired. At that time, additional testing would be performed to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and assess the need for an impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Inability to integrate future acquisitions may adversely impact our operating results We have completed a number of recent acquisitions and expect to continue making acquisitions of, and strategic alliances with, complementary businesses to enable us to enhance our customer base and grow our revenues. Execution of this strategy involves a number of risks, including: • Inaccurate assessment of or undisclosed liabilities; • Difficulty integrating the acquired businesses’ personnel and operations; • Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business; • Difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies; • Competition for such acquisitions and alliances; • Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; and • Managing the growth of a larger company. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 Table of Contents Potential limitations on our ability to access credit facilities may restrict our ability to operate Although we believe we have adequate access to contractually committed borrowings, we could be adversely affected if our banks refused to honor their contract commitments or ceased lending. While we believe the lending institutions participating in our credit arrangements are financially capable, recent events in the global credit markets, including the failure, takeover or rescue by various government entities of major financial institutions, have created uncertainty of credit availability to an extent not experienced in recent decades. Failure to access our credit facilities could restrict our ability to fund operations or make strategic acquisitions. Product liability claims may adversely impact our operating results We could inadvertently acquire radioactive scrap metal that could potentially end up in mixed scrap metal shipped to consumers worldwide. Although we have invested in radiation detection equipment in certain of our locations to address this risk, failure to detect radioactive scrap metal remains a possibility. Even though we maintain insurance to address the risk of this failure in detection, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage would be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms. In addition, if we fail to meet contractual requirements for a product we may be subject to product warranty costs and claims. These costs are generally not insured and could both have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. Increases in consumer fuel costs and decreases in the miles they drive may decrease demand for our auto parts In times of rapid increases in crude oil and gasoline prices, motorists may reduce the amount of travel by automobile. As the economy slows, consumer confidence weakens and fuel costs become a more significant factor in buying decisions and discretionary driving. Over time, significantly reduced driving leads to fewer accidents and lower demand for replacement parts, which may impact APB’s parts sales. Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment Environmental regulations may cause us to incur significant compliance costs Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We are subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the US and other countries relating to, among other matters: • Waste disposal; • Air emissions; • Waste water and storm water management and treatment; • Soil and groundwater contamination remediation; • Global climate change; • The discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; and • Employee health and safety. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. Violation of or failure to obtain permits or comply with these laws or regulations could result in our business being fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or becoming subject to litigation by private parties. Our operations use and generate hazardous substances. In addition, previous operations by others at facilities that we currently or formerly owned, operated or otherwise used may have caused contamination from hazardous substances. As a result, we are exposed to possible claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of waterways and soil or groundwater contamination. These laws can impose liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances even if the owner or operator was neither aware of nor responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. We have, in the past, been found not to be in compliance with certain of these laws and regulations, and have incurred liabilities, expenditures, fines and penalties associated with such violations. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, future environmental compliance costs may increase because of new laws and regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, the future costs of pollution control technology and issues related to global climate change. Environmental compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 / 17 Table of Contents Climate change may adversely impact our facilities and our ongoing operations The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include significant rising sea levels at our deep water port facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. As many of our recycling facilities are located near deep water ports, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to receive scrap metal, process the scrap metal through our mega-shredders and to ship product to our customers. Our MRB and APB operations are also dependent upon weather conditions. Periods of extended adverse weather conditions may inhibit our supply of scrap metal which could cause us to fail to meet our sales commitments. In addition, if temperature levels in the summer were to significantly increase for a sustained period in areas where our APB operations are located, this could result in less customer traffic, thus resulting in reduced admissions and parts sales. Our effective tax rate could increase if our earnings from operations in Puerto Rico are taxed at higher rates We currently calculate the taxes on our earnings in Puerto Rico to include benefits from industrial tax exemptions available to companies doing business there. Should it be determined by Puerto Rican taxing authorities that we are not entitled to all or a portion of these exemptions, the taxes on our earnings from operations in Puerto Rico and our consolidated effective tax rate could increase, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Compliance with existing and new greenhouse gas emission regulations may adversely impact our operating results Increased regulation regarding climate change and GHG emissions could impose significant costs on our business and our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with regulations concerning and limitations imposed on climate change and GHG emissions. The potential costs of allowances, offsets or credits that may be part of “cap and trade” programs or similar future regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability (and that of our customers and suppliers) to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the metal recycling and steel manufacturing industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our products. See Environmental Matters in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further detail. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our licenses and permits, thus restricting our ability to operate We conduct certain of our operations subject to licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including auto parts facilities. In addition, from time to time, both the US and foreign governments impose regulations and restrictions on trade in the markets in which we operate. In some countries, governments can require us to apply for certificates or registration before allowing shipment of recycled metal to customers in those countries. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold. Failure to obtain these approvals could cause us to limit or discontinue operations in these locations or prevent us from developing or acquiring new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Employees Reliance on employees subject to collective bargaining may restrict our ability to operate Approximately 26% of our full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on acceptable terms. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of our unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 Table of Contents The underfunded status of our multiemployer pension plans may cause us to increase our contributions to the plans As discussed in Note 15 – Employee Benefits in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have been notified that the multiemployer plan benefiting union employees of SMB has an accumulated funding deficiency (i.e., a failure to satisfy the minimum funding requirements) for the current plan year and is therefore “in critical status.” Because the plan is in “critical status,” it is required to adopt a rehabilitation plan, which may involve contribution increases, benefit reductions or a combination of the two. At this time, we are not required to make surcharge payments as we are already signatory to an agreement that requires annual six percent contribution increases. Our withdrawal liability, which would be triggered if we were to withdraw or partially withdraw from the plan, was calculated by the plan actuary to be $28 million as of September 30, 2009. Because we have no current intention of withdrawing from the plan, we have not recognized a liability for this contingency. However, if such a liability were triggered it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our contributions to this plan could also increase as a result of a diminished contribution base due to the insolvency or withdrawal of other employers who currently contribute to the plan, the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability or other funding deficiencies, as we would need to fund the retirement obligations of these employers. Approximately 60% of our multiemployer pension plan contributions are made to the Western Independent Shops Pension Trust (the “WISP Trust”) for the benefit of union employees of SMB. In 2004, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) approved a seven-year extension of the period over which the WISP Trust may amortize unfunded liabilities, conditioned upon maintenance of certain minimum funding levels. Based on the actuarial valuation for the WISP Trust as of October 1, 2009 (the latest available actuarial information), the funded percentage of the WISP Trust (based on the ratio of the market value of assets to the accumulated benefits liability (present value of accrued benefits)) was 65.4%, which is below the targeted funding ratio specified in the agreement with the IRS. As a result, the WISP Trust is in the process of seeking relief from the specified funding requirement from the IRS. If the WISP Trust cannot obtain relief, revocation by the IRS of the amortization extension retroactively to the 2002 plan year could occur and result in a material liability for our share of the resulting funding deficiency, the extent of which currently cannot be estimated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved issues with respect to any SEC staff written comments that were received 180 days or more before the end of fiscal 2010 that relate to our periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2010 / 19 Table of Contents 