ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below are risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements” that precedes Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of or that the Company currently deems immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Company’s Businesses Industries in which the Company operates, are cyclical and demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. MRB and SMB operate in industries that are cyclical in nature. The timing and magnitude of these industry cycles are difficult to predict. Purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal and selling prices for scrap and recycled metal are volatile and beyond the Company’s control. While the Company attempts to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices through adjustments to its metal purchase prices, the Company’s ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Additionally, changing prices could potentially impact the volume of scrap metal available to the Company, the volume of processed metal sold by the Company and inventory levels. The cyclical nature of the Company’s businesses tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. For example, during recessions, the automobile and construction industries typically experience major cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This can lead to significant decreases in demand and pricing for the Company’s recycled metal and finished steel products. The Company’s businesses are affected by seasonal fluctuations. APB experiences seasonal fluctuations in demand during periods of extreme temperatures and precipitation in the winter and summer months as customers of the self-service stores tend to delay their purchases and wait for milder conditions, in large part because the retail stores are open to the elements. As a result, retail sales are generally higher during the spring and fall of each calendar year. Wholesale sales also experience seasonal fluctuations, as sales to collision shops are generally lower in periods of good weather. Demand for SMB’s finished steel product generally decreases during the winter months due to weather-related slowdowns in the construction industry and increases during the peak summer months, when foreign customers tend to manufacture less in order to avoid higher energy costs. The principal markets served by the Company are highly competitive. The Company is subject to intense and increasing competition, including a significant increase in foreign competition with SMB in recent years. The Company also faces strong competition for raw materials. Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including product differentiation, geographic location, contract terms, business practices, customer service and cost reductions through improved efficiencies. Consolidation within the different industries in which the Company operates has increased the size of some of the Company’s competitors, some of which have used their financial resources to achieve competitive advantages by investing in capital improvements to improve efficiencies, achieve economies of scale and lower operating costs. If the Company is unable to remain competitive or if competition increases, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could adversely affect the Company’s ability to price its products competitively. A significant portion of the revenues and operating income earned by MRB is generated from sales to foreign customers, including customers located in Asian and Mediterranean countries. Some of the Company’s sales transactions are conducted in foreign currencies and may be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. A strong U.S. dollar would make the Company’s products more expensive for non-U.S. customers, which could negatively impact export sales. A strong U.S. dollar also would make imported metal products less expensive, resulting in an increase in imports of scrap metal, scrap substitutes and steel products into the U.S. Past economic difficulties in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America have resulted in lower local demand for steel products and have encouraged greater steel exports to the U.S. at depressed prices. As a result, the Company’s products, which are made in the U.S., may become more expensive relative to imported raw metal and steel products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to deliver products to customers and the cost of shipping and handling may be affected by circumstances over which the Company has no control. MRB and SMB often rely on third parties to handle and transport their raw materials to their production facilities and finished products to end users. Due to factors beyond the Company’s control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, the Company may not be able to transport its products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, increases in freight costs could negatively impact the margins from export sales. In addition, the Company’s failure to deliver products in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition and harm its reputation. The Company’s businesses depend on adequate supplies of raw materials. The Company’s businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third-party suppliers. Although the Company’s vertical integration allows it to be its own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to SMB, the Company does rely on other suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions generally, which involves risks, including the possibility of increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. For example, purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal are highly cyclical in nature and subject to U.S. and global economic conditions. As a result, the Company might not be able to obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials in a timely or cost-effective manner. Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. The Company’s recycling and manufacturing processes depend upon critical pieces of equipment, including shredders and furnaces, which may be out of service occasionally for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. The Company has made and is continuing to make significant investments in modern equipment, but the installation of new equipment may result in short-term disruptions to operations and may take several months to complete. In addition, the Company’s facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. As a result, the Company may experience interruptions in its processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to negotiate future labor contracts on acceptable terms, which could result in strikes or other labor actions. Approximately 28% of the Company’s full-time employees are represented by collective unions under bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, the Company may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on terms acceptable to the Company. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of the Company’s unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions. Any such labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. 14 Table of Contents The availability and cost of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The Company’s facilities are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. The Company relies on third parties for its supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of its products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by weather conditions, as well as political and economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Disruptions in the supply of the Company’s energy resources could impair its ability to manufacture its products for its customers and could result in increases in the Company’s energy costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions. The Company has completed many recent acquisitions and expects to continue making acquisitions of and strategic alliances with complementary businesses, and investments in technologies to enable the Company to add products and services that enhance the Company’s customer base and related markets. Execution of this strategy involves a number of risks, including: • Inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; • Difficulty integrating the acquired businesses’ personnel and operations; • Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business; and • Difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If the Company loses its key management personnel, it may not be able to successfully manage its business or achieve its objectives. The Company’s future success depends in large part on the leadership and performance of its executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If the Company were to lose the services of several of its executive officers or key employees at the operating level, it might not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel. As a result, the Company may not be able to successfully manage its business or achieve its business objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Some of the Company’s operations present significant risk of injury or death. The industrial activities conducted at the Company’s facilities present significant risk of serious injury or death to the Company’s employees, customers or other visitors to the Company’s operations, notwithstanding the Company’s safety precautions, including its material compliance with federal, state and local employee health and safety regulations. While the Company has in place policies and procedures to minimize such risks, it may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for an injury or death, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. A significant increase in the use of recycled metal alternatives by current consumers of recycled metal could reduce demand for the Company’s product. Continuous advances in materials sciences and resulting technologies, as well as the relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly the “cleaner” grades, and its high price during periods of high demand, have given rise to new products, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets, which compete with traditional recycled metals. Although these alternatives have not been a major factor in the industry to date, there can be no assurance that the use of alternatives to recycled metal may not proliferate in the future if the prices for recycled metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten, or if the costs to import scrap metal changes. Any significant increase in the use of such substitutes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents The Company relies on information technology in critical areas of the Company’s operations, and a disruption relating to such technology could harm the Company. The Company uses information technology systems in various aspects of the Company’s operations, including, but not limited to, the management of inventories, processing costs and customer sales. If the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with the Company, or if the Company decides to switch providers or to implement its own systems, it may suffer disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing its own systems. The Company could be subject to product liability claims. If customers of repair shops that purchase the Company’s recycled auto parts are injured or suffer property damage as a result of purchasing the product, the Company could be subject to product liability claims. In addition, the Company has some exposure from radioactive scrap that could inadvertently end up in mixed scrap shipped to consumers worldwide. The Company has invested in radiation detection equipment. However the possibility still exists of potential failure in detection. The successful assertion of any such claim could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If Chinese steel production substantially exceeds local demand, it may result in the export of significant excess quantities of steel products. Chinese economic expansion has affected the availability and increased the price volatility of recycled metal and steel products. Expansions and contractions in the Chinese economy can significantly affect the price of commodities used and sold by the Company, as well as the price of finished steel products. If expanding Chinese steel production significantly exceeds local consumption, exports of steel products from China could increase, resulting in lower volumes and selling prices for SMB’s steel products. Any resulting dislocations in foreign markets may encourage importers to target the U.S. with excess capacity at aggressive prices, and existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to environmental regulations and environmental risks which could result in significant environmental compliance costs and environmental liability. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in the Company’s business. The Company is subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in relating to, among other matters: • Waste disposal; • Air emissions; • Waste water and storm water management and treatment; • Soil and groundwater contamination remediation; • The discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; • Employee health and safety. The Company is also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. Violation or failure to obtain permits or comply with these laws or regulations, could result in the Company being fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. The Company’s operations use and generate hazardous substances. In addition, previous operations by others at facilities that are currently or were formerly owned or operated by the Company or otherwise used by the Company may have caused contamination from hazardous substances. As a result, the Company is exposed to possible claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of waterways and soil or groundwater contamination. These laws can impose liability for the clean-up of hazardous substances, even if the owner or operator was neither aware of nor responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, future environmental compliance costs may increase because of new laws and regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, uncertainty regarding adequate 16 Table of Contents pollution control levels, the future costs of pollution control technology and issues related to global climate change. Environmental compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew the Company’s licenses and permits. The Company must receive licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments to conduct certain of its operations or to develop or acquire new facilities. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including auto parts facilities. In addition, from time to time, both the U.S. and foreign governments impose regulations and restrictions on trade in the markets in which the Company operates. In some countries, governments can require the Company to apply for certificates or registration before allowing shipment of recycled metal to customers in those countries. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that the Company will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits it currently holds, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved issues with respect to any SEC staff written comments that were received 180 days or more before the end of fiscal 2007 that relate to the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 