ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSDescribed below are risks, which are categorized as “Risk Factors Relating to Our Business,” “Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment” and “Risk Factors Relating to Our Employees,” that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements” that precedes Part I of this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Risk Factors Relating to Our BusinessPotential costs related to the environmental cleanup of Portland Harbor may be material to our financial position and liquidityIn December 2000, we were notified by the EPA under CERCLA that we are a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) that owns or operates or formerly owned or operated sites which are part of or adjacent to the Portland Harbor Superfund site (the “Site”). The precise nature and extent of any cleanup of the Site, the parties to be involved, the process to be followed for any cleanup and the allocation of the costs for any cleanup among responsible parties have not yet been determined. A group of PRPs is currently conducting a remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”) to identify and characterize the contamination at the Site and develop alternative approaches to remediation of the contamination. A separate process to allocate the costs of the RI/FS and the ultimate remedy is also currently underway. The EPA has indicated that it expects to issue a record of decision that will discuss remedial alternatives for the Site sometime in 2013. Separately, the natural resource damages trustees for the Site are conducting a process to determine the amount of natural resource damages at the Site and identify the persons potentially liable for such damages. It is currently unclear to what extent we will be liable for environmental costs or damages associated with the Site or for natural resource damage claims or third party contribution or damage claims with respect to the Site; however, given the size of the Site, the costs to date of the RI/FS and the nature of the conditions identified to date, the total cost of the investigations, remediation and natural resource damages claims are likely to be substantial. Significant cash outflows in the future related to the Site could reduce the amount of our borrowing capacity that could otherwise be used for investment in capital expenditures and acquisitions. Any material liabilities incurred in the future related to the Site could result in our failure to maintain compliance with certain covenants in our debt agreements. Because there has not been a determination of the total investigation costs, the remediation that will be required, the amount of natural resource damages or how the costs of the ongoing investigations and any remedy and natural resource damages will be allocated among the PRPs, it is not currently possible to estimate the costs which we are likely to incur in connection with the Site, although such costs could be significant and material to our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. See “Contingencies – Environmental” in Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.Changes in the availability or price of raw materials and end of life vehicles could reduce our sales Our businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third party suppliers. Although our cross-divisional synergies allow us to be our own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to scrap metal for SMB, we rely on other suppliers for most of our raw material needs. Industry supply conditions generally involve risks, including the possibility of shortages of raw materials, increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. We procure our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metal to us. In periods of low scrap metal prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap metal to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their metal collection activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling scrap metal to us, we will be unable to recycle metal at desired levels, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A slowdown 12 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2011Table of Contentsof industrial production in the U.S. may also reduce the supply of industrial grades of metal to the metals recycling industry, resulting in our having less recyclable metal available to process and market. In addition, increased foreign demand for scrap metal due to economic expansion in developing countries may result in increased competition for available domestic scrap metal. Failure to obtain a steady supply of scrap material could both adversely impact our ability to meet sales commitments and reduce our operating margins. Failure to obtain an adequate supply of end-of-life vehicles could adversely impact our ability to attract customers and charge admission fees and reduce our parts sales. Failure to obtain raw materials, such as alloys used in the steel-making process, could adversely impact our ability to make steel to the specifications of our customers.Significant decreases in scrap metal prices may adversely impact our operating resultsThe timing and magnitude of the cycles in the industries in which we operate are difficult to predict and are influenced by different economic conditions in the domestic market, where we typically acquire our raw materials, and foreign markets, where we typically sell the majority of our products. Purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal and selling prices for scrap metal are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing scrap metal selling prices through adjustments to our metal purchase prices, our ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our metal purchase prices to offset a sudden reduction in scrap metal sales prices, which may adversely impact our operating income and cash flows.Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequencesWe have completed a number of recent acquisitions and expect to continue making acquisitions of complementary businesses to enable us to enhance our customer base and grow our revenues. Execution of our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including:•Difficulty integrating the acquired businesses’ personnel and operations;•Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business;•Difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies;•Inaccurate assessment of or undisclosed liabilities;•Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; and•Managing the growth of a larger company.If we do not successfully execute our acquisition strategy and the acquired businesses do not perform as projected, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Goodwill impairment charges may adversely affect our operating resultsGoodwill is generated in connection with our acquisition strategy and represents the excess purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We test our goodwill balances for impairment on an annual basis and if events occur or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of one or more of our reporting units may be below its carrying amount. In determining fair value, we use an income approach based on the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing a market-based weighted average cost of capital. Given that market prices of our reporting units are not readily available, we make various estimates and assumptions in determining the estimated fair values of the reporting units, including forecasts of future sales and operating costs, prices, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, discount rates, growth rates and general market conditions. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in the factors described above. A sustained decline in the quoted market prices of our stock could denote a triggering event indicating that the fair value of goodwill may be impaired. As a result of our testing to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill, we may assess the need for an impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Uncertain economic conditions may cause customers to be unable to fulfill their contractual obligationsWe enter into export ferrous sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantity, shipping terms and other contractual terms. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies, the customer typically opens a letter of credit to satisfy its obligation under the contract prior to our shipment of the cargo. Although not considered normal course of business, during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until the customer successfully opens the letter of credit. Customers may not be able to fulfill their contractual obligations or open letters of credit in times of illiquid market conditions. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, 44% and 43%, respectively, of our trade accounts receivable balance was covered by letters of credit.Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may reduce the demand for our productsA significant portion of MRB’s revenues and operating income earned is generated from sales to foreign customers, which are denominated in U.S. dollars, including customers located in Asia, Africa and Europe. A strong U.S. dollar would make our products more expensive for non-U.S. customers, which could negatively impact export sales. A strong U.S. dollar would also make imported metal products less expensive, resulting in an increase in imports of steel products into the U.S. As a result, our finished steel 13 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2011Table of Contentsproducts, which are made in the U.S., may become more expensive for our U.S. customers relative to imported steel products.We are exposed to translation and transaction risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Hedging instruments may not be effective in mitigating such risks and may expose us to losses or limit our potential gains.Our operations in Canada expose us to translation and transaction risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of the operating costs and the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations into our functional currency for inclusion in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange transaction risk. As part of our risk management program, we may use financial instruments, including foreign currency exchange forward contracts. While intended to reduce the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, these instruments may not be effective in reducing all risks related to such fluctuations and may limit our potential gains or expose us to losses. Although we do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes or speculation, and our management believes all such instruments are entered into as hedges of underlying physical transactions, these instruments are dependent on timely performance by our counterparties. Should our counterparties to such instruments or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from the transactions covered by these instruments.Potential limitations on our ability to access capital resources may restrict our ability to operateOur operations are capital intensive. For the five-year period ended August 31, 2011, our total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were approximately $393 million. Our business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. While we expect that our cash requirements, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service and any contingencies, will be financed by internally generated funds or from borrowings under our unsecured committed bank credit facility, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions could require financing from external sources.Although we believe we have adequate access to contractually committed borrowings, we could be adversely affected if our banks refused to honor their contractual commitments or ceased lending. While we believe the lending institutions participating in our credit arrangements are financially capable, recent events in the global credit markets, including the failure, takeover or rescue by various government entities of major financial institutions, have created uncertainty of credit availability to an extent not experienced in recent decades. Failure to access our credit facilities could restrict our ability to fund operations, make capital expenditures or execute acquisitions.The agreement governing our bank credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our business and contains financial covenants Our unsecured committed bank credit agreement contains certain restrictions on our business, including our ability to create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, acquire and dispose of businesses, guarantee debt, and consolidate or merge. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our bank credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial and other covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or financial covenants could result in an event of default under the bank credit agreement, and permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which we may not be able to do at terms acceptable to us, or at all. Consolidation in the steel industry may reduce demand for our productsThere has been a significant amount of consolidation in the steel industry in recent years that has included steel mills acquiring steel fabricators to ensure demand for their products. If any of our significant remaining customers were to be acquired by competing steel mills, this could reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices, reducing our revenues, or to reduce production, which could increase our unit costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Increases in imports of foreign steel into the U.S. may reduce domestic demand for our productsEconomic expansion in China and other foreign countries has affected the availability, and increased the price volatility, of recycled metal and steel products. Expansions and contractions in these economies can significantly affect the price of commodities used and sold by our business, as well as the price of finished steel products. Additionally, in a number of foreign countries, such as China, steel producers are generally government-owned and may therefore make production decisions based on political or other factors that do not reflect market conditions. Disruptions in foreign markets from excess steel production may encourage importers to target the U.S. with excess capacity at aggressive prices, and existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although 14 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2011Table of Contentstrade regulations restrict the importation of certain products, if foreign steel production significantly exceeds consumption in those countries, imports of steel products into the U.S. could increase, resulting in lower volumes and selling prices for SMB’s steel products.Failure to realize expected benefits from investments in processing and manufacturing technology may impact our operating resultsWe make significant investments in processing and manufacturing technology improvements aimed at increasing the efficiency and capabilities of our businesses and to maximize our economies of scale. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits and generate adequate returns on such capital improvement projects may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Reliance on third party shipping companies may restrict our ability to ship our productsMRB and SMB generally rely on third parties to handle and transport raw materials to their production facilities and finished products to end users. Despite our practice of utilizing a diversified group of suppliers, due to factors beyond our control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in transportation infrastructure, third party shipping companies may be forced to increase their charges for transportation services or otherwise reduce the availability of their vehicles or ships, and thus we may not be able to transport our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may harm our reputation.Product liability claims may adversely impact our operating resultsWe could inadvertently acquire radioactive scrap metal that could potentially end up in mixed scrap metal shipped to consumers worldwide. Although we have invested in radiation detection equipment in the majority of our locations, including the facilities from which we ship directly to customers, failure to detect radioactive scrap metal remains a possibility. Even though we maintain insurance to address the risk of this failure in detection, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage would be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms. In addition, if we fail to meet contractual requirements for a product, we may be subject to product warranty costs and claims. These costs and claims could both have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation.Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory EnvironmentEnvironmental regulations may cause us to incur significant compliance costsCompliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We are subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to, among other matters:•Waste disposal;•Air emissions;•Waste water and storm water management and treatment;•Soil and groundwater contamination remediation;•Global climate change;•The discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; and•Employee health and safety.We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. Violation of or failure to obtain permits or comply with these laws or regulations could result in our business being fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or becoming subject to litigation by private parties. Our operations use, handle and generate hazardous substances. In addition, previous operations by others at facilities that we currently or formerly owned, operated or otherwise used may have caused contamination from hazardous substances. As a result, we are exposed to possible claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of waterways and soil or groundwater contamination. These laws can impose liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances even if the owner or operator was neither aware of nor responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. We have, in the past, been found not to be in compliance with certain of these laws and regulations, and have incurred liabilities, expenditures, fines and penalties associated with such violations. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, future environmental compliance costs may increase because of new laws and regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, the future costs of pollution control technology and issues related to global climate change. Environmental compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.15 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2011Table of ContentsClimate change may adversely impact our facilities and our ongoing operationsThe potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include rising sea levels at our deep water port facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. As many of our recycling facilities are located near deep water ports, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to receive scrap metal, process the scrap metal through our mega-shredders and ship products to our customers. Periods of extended adverse weather conditions may inhibit the supply of scrap metal to MRB and SMB and end-of-life vehicles to APB which could cause us to fail to meet our sales commitments. In addition, sustained periods of increased temperature levels in the summer in areas where our APB operations are located could result in less customer traffic, thus resulting in reduced admissions and parts sales.Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our licenses and permits, thus restricting our ability to operateWe conduct certain of our operations subject to licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including auto parts facilities. In addition, from time to time, both the U.S. and foreign governments impose regulations and restrictions on trade in the markets in which we operate. In some countries, governments can require us to apply for certificates or registration before allowing shipment of recycled metal to customers in those countries. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold. Failure to obtain these approvals could cause us to limit or discontinue operations in these locations or prevent us from developing or acquiring new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with existing and new greenhouse gas emission regulations may adversely impact our operating resultsIncreased regulation regarding climate change and GHG emissions could impose significant costs on our business and our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with regulations concerning and limitations imposed on climate change and GHG emissions. The potential costs of allowances, offsets or credits that may be part of “cap and trade” programs or similar future regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability (and that of our customers and suppliers) to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the metal recycling and steel manufacturing industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our products. See “Business - Environmental Matters” in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further detail.Risk Factors Relating to Our EmployeesReliance on employees subject to collective bargaining may restrict our ability to operateApproximately 21% of our full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements, including substantially all of the manufacturing employees at our SMB steel manufacturing facility. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on acceptable terms. Any failure to reach an agreement with one or more of our unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The underfunded status of our multiemployer pension plans may cause us to increase our contributions to the plansAs discussed in Note 15 – Employee Benefits in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have been notified that the multiemployer plan benefiting union employees of SMB has an accumulated funding deficiency (i.e., a failure to satisfy the minimum funding requirements) and is in a certified Red Zone Status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as of August 31, 2011. Because the plan is in Red Zone Status, it is required to adopt a rehabilitation plan, which may involve contribution increases, benefit reductions or a combination of the two. At this time, we are not required to make surcharge payments as we are already signatory to an agreement that requires annual six percent contribution increases. Because we have no current intention of withdrawing from the plan, we have not recognized a withdrawal liability in our consolidated financial statements. However, if such a liability were triggered, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our contributions to this plan could also increase as a result of a diminished contribution base due to the insolvency or withdrawal of other employers who currently contribute to the plan, the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability or other funding deficiencies, as we would need to fund the retirement obligations of these employers.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.16 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2011Table of Contents