ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Many of our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services may be impacted by the current deterioration in the economy and credit markets. As a result of slowing domestic economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, and other challenges currently affecting the domestic economy, our customers have reduced their spending on our products and services. Many of our customers in our electronic surveillance equipment business finance their purchase activities through cash flow from operations or the incurrence of debt. Additionally, many of our customers in our personal defense products division, our e-commerce division and our car wash operations depend on disposable personal income. The combination of a reduction of disposal personal income, a reduction in cash flow of businesses and a possible lack of availability of financing to businesses and individuals has resulted in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our revenues from continuing operations declined $3.0 million or 22% from our revenues from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2007. To the extent our customers reduce their spending for the remainder 2009, this reduction in spending could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If the economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to finance the growth of our business, our stock price could decline. Our business plan involves growing our Security and Digital Media Marketing Segments through acquisitions and internal development, and divesting of our car washes through third party sales. The growth of our Security and Digital Media Segments requires significant capital that we hope to partially fund through the sale of our car washes. Our capital requirements also include working capital for daily operations and capital for equipment purchases. Although we had positive working capital of $16.0 million as of December 31, 2008, we have a history of net losses and in some years we have ended our fiscal year with a negative working capital balance. Our positive working capital decreased by approximately $1.8 million from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 principally due to the sale of our six Florida car washes and payoff of their related mortgage debt recorded as current at December 31, 2007 in the first quarter of 2008; the $2.2 million investment loss related to the Victory Fund, Ltd. Hedge fund, the impact on working capital of our continuing losses, and the reclass from non-current debt to current debt of approximately $2.3 million of 15-year amortizing loans with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”) secured by several of our Texas car wash operations and our warehouse facility in Farmers Branch, Texas as a result of this debt being up for renewal from June 2009 through October 2009. Although we expect that we will be successful in renewing this debt, or paying off the car wash related mortgage debt with proceeds from the sale of the car wash facilities, there can be no assurances that this will occur. The current economic climate has made it more difficult to sell our remaining car washes as it is more difficult for buyers to finance the purchase price. To the extent that we lack cash to meet our future capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through bank borrowings and additional equity and/or debt financings, which may result in significant increases in leverage and interest expense and/or substantial dilution of our outstanding equity. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may need to substantially reduce the scale of our operations and curtail our business plan. Although we have generated cash from the sale of our car washes, there is no guarantee that in the current economic climate we will be able to sell our remaining car washes. Our liquidity could be adversely affected if we do not prevail in the litigation initiated by Louis D. Paolino, Jr. The Board of Directors of the Company terminated Louis D. Paolino, Jr. as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on May 20, 2008. On June 9, 2008, the Company received a Demand for Arbitration from Mr. Paolino (“Arbitration Demand”) filed with the American Arbitration Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (“Arbitration Proceeding”). The primary allegations of the Arbitration Demand are: (i) Mr. Paolino alleges that he was terminated by the Company wrongfully and is owed a severance payment of $3,918,120 due to the termination; (ii) Mr. Paolino is claiming that the Company owes him $322,606 because the Company did not issue him a sufficient number of stock options in August 2007, under provisions of the Employment Contract between Mr. Paolino and the Company dated August 21, 2006; (iii) Mr. Paolino is claiming damages against the Company in excess of $6,000,000, allegedly caused by the Company having defamed Mr. Paolino’s professional reputation and character in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2008 filed by the Company and in the press release the Company issued on May 21, 2008, relating to Mr. Paolino’s termination; and (iv) Mr. Paolino is also seeking punitive damages, attorney’s fees and costs in an unspecified amount. The Company filed a counterclaim in the Arbitration Proceeding demanding damages from Mr. Paolino of $1,000,000. On June 25, 2008, Mr. Paolino also filed a claim with the United States Department of Labor claiming that his termination as Chief Executive Officer of the Company was an “unlawful discharge” in violation of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1514A, a provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“DOL Complaint”). In the DOL Complaint, Mr. Paolino demands the same damages he requested in the Arbitration Demand and additionally requests reinstatement as Chief Executive Officer with back pay from the date of termination. Upon the motion of Mr. Paolino, the proceedings relating to the DOL Complaint have been stayed pending the conclusion of the Arbitration Proceeding. The Company is disputing the allegations made by Mr. Paolino and is defending itself in the Arbitration Proceeding and against the DOL Complaint. Though the Company is confident in prevailing, it is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation with any certainty. If the Company does not prevail and significant damages are awarded to Mr. Paolino, such award may severely diminish the Company’s liquidity. 11 Our liquidity could be adversely effected if we are required to repay a redemption we received from Victory Fund, Ltd. One of our short-term investments was in a hedge fund, namely the Victory Fund, Ltd. We requested redemption of this hedge fund investment on June 18, 2008. Under the Limited Partnership Agreement with the hedge fund, the redemption request was timely for a return of the investment account balance as of September 30, 2008, payable ten business days after the end of the September 30, 2008 quarter. The hedge fund acknowledged that the redemption amount owed was $3,206,748; however, on October 15, 2008 the hedge fund asserted the right to withhold the redemption amount due to extraordinary market circumstances. After negotiations, the hedge fund agreed to pay the redemption amount in two installments, $1,000,000 on November 3, 2008 and $2,206,748 on January 15, 2009. The Company received the first installment of $1,000,000 on November 5, 2008. The Company has not received the second installment. On January 21, 2009, a receiver (“Receiver”) was appointed in a civil case that was initiated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Plaintiff (“SEC”), versus, Arthur Nadel, Scoop Capital, LLC, Scoop Management, Inc., (“Defendants”), and Scoop Real Estate, L.P., Valhalla Investment Partners, L.P., Valhalla Management, Inc., Victory IRA Fund, Ltd, Victory Fund, Ltd, Viking IRA Fund, LLC, Viking Fund, LLC, and Viking Management, LLC, (“Relief Defendants”), Case No. 8:09-cv-87-T-26TBM in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division (“Court”). The SEC alleged that Arthur Nadel defrauded investors in the Victory Fund, LLC and the other Relief Defendants by massively overstating the value of investments in these funds and issuing false and misleading account statements to investors. The Receiver has been directed by the Court to (i) administer and manage the business affairs, funds, assets, and any other property of the Defendants and Relief Defendants; (ii) marshall and safeguard the assets of the Defendants and Relief Defendants; (iii) investigate the manner in which the affairs of the Defendants and Relief Defendants were conducted and institute such legal proceedings for the benefit of the Defendants and Relief Defendants and their investors and creditors as the Receiver deems necessary and (iv) take whatever actions are necessary for the protection of the investors. One of the actions the Receiver may take on behalf of all investors is to attempt to “claw back” redemptions and distributions made by the hedge funds to their investors and use the returned funds to pay the expenses of the Receiver and for a pro-rata distribution to all investors. No “claw back” action has been filed to date and, if filed we would oppose such an action. If we are required by the Court to pay back the $1,000,000 redemption we received, our liquidity would be adversely affected. If we fail to manage the growth of our business, our stock price could decline. Our business plan is predicated on growing the Security Segment. If we succeed in growing, it will place significant burdens on our management and on our operational and other resources. For example, it may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our existing business; we must integrate management information and accounting systems of an acquired business into our current systems; our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; we may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience; and we may lose key employees of an acquired business. We will also need to attract, train, motivate, retain, and supervise senior managers and other employees. If we fail to manage these burdens successfully, one or more of the acquisitions could be unprofitable, the shift of our management’s focus could harm our other businesses, and we may be forced to abandon our business plan, which relies on growth. We have debt secured by mortgages, which can be foreclosed upon if we default on the debt. Our bank debt borrowings as of December 31, 2008 were $6.5 million, including borrowings related to assets held for sale, substantially all of which are secured by mortgages against certain of our real property (including up to eight of our car wash facilities at December 31, 2008). Our most significant borrowings are secured notes payable to Chase in the amount of $5.4 million. We have in the past violated loan covenants in our Chase agreements. We have obtained waivers for our violations of the Chase agreements. Our ongoing ability to comply with the debt covenants under our credit arrangements and refinance our debt depends largely on our achievement of adequate levels of cash flow. Our cash flow has been and could continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions. If we default on our loan covenants in the future and are not able to obtain amendments or waivers of acceleration, our debt could become due and payable on demand, and Chase could foreclose on the assets pledged in support of the relevant indebtedness. If our assets (including up to eight of our car wash facilities at December 31, 2008) are foreclosed upon, revenues from our Car Wash Segment, which comprised 25.1% of our total revenues for the fiscal 2008, would be severely impacted and we may go out of business. Our loans with Chase have financial covenants that restrict our operations and which can cause our loans to be accelerated. Our secured notes payable to Chase total $5.4 million, $2.3 million of which was classified as non-current debt at December 31, 2008. The Chase agreements contain affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain levels of tangible net worth, maintenance of certain levels of unencumbered cash and marketable securities, limitations on capital spending, and certain financial reporting requirements. Our Chase agreements contain an express prohibition on incurring additional debt without the approval of the lender. The Chase term loan agreements also limit capital expenditures annually to $1.0 million, require the Company to provide Chase with a Form 10-K and audited financial statements within 120 days of the Company’s fiscal year end and a Form 10-Q within 60 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, and require the maintenance of a minimum total unencumbered cash and marketable securities balance of $5 million. If we are unable to satisfy the Chase covenants and we cannot obtain further waivers or amendments to our loan agreements, the Chase notes may be reflected as current in future balance sheets and as a result our stock price may decline. We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2008. 12 We have reported net losses in the past. If we continue to report net losses, the price of our common stock may decline, or we could go out of business. We reported net losses and negative cash flow from operating activity from continuing operations in each of the five years ended December 31, 2008. Although a portion of the reported losses in past years related to non-cash impairment charges of intangible assets under SFAS 142 and non-cash stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R), we may continue to report net losses and negative cash flow in the future. Additionally, SFAS 142 requires annual fair value based impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets identified with indefinite useful lives. As a result, we may be required to record additional impairments in the future, which could materially reduce our earnings and equity. If we continue to report net losses and negative cash flows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets and thus above average profit margins will likely attract additional competitors. Our competitors may develop products and services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than our products and services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than ours. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to offer superior products and services. Failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures could seriously harm our business. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, mistakes and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Any failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our executive officers, our business may suffer. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers and do not replace them with experienced personnel, that loss of talent and experience will make our business plan, which is dependent on active growth and management, more difficult to implement and could adversely impact our operations. If our insurance is inadequate, we could face significant losses. We maintain various insurance coverages for our assets and operations. These coverages include property coverage including business interruption protection for each location. We maintain commercial general liability coverage in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. We also maintain workers’ compensation policies in every state in which we operate. Since July 2002, as a result of increasing costs of the Company’s insurance program, including auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation coverage, we have been insured as a participant in a captive insurance program with other unrelated businesses. The Company maintains excess coverage through occurrence-based policies. With respect to our auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation policies, we are required to set aside an actuarially determined amount of cash in a restricted “loss fund” account for the payment of claims under the policies. We expect to fund these accounts annually as required by the insurance company. Should funds deposited exceed claims incurred and paid, unused deposited funds are returned to us with interest after the fifth anniversary of the policy year-end. The captive insurance program is further secured by a letter of credit from Mace in the amount of $827,747 at December 31, 2008. The Company records a monthly expense for losses up to the reinsurance limit per claim based on the Company’s tracking of claims and the insurance company’s reporting of amounts paid on claims plus an estimate of reserves for possible future losses on reported claims and claims incurred but not reported. There can be no assurance that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event a claim is made against us, or that we will be able to maintain in place such insurance at reasonable prices. An uninsured or under insured claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Risks Related to our Security Segment We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Although we have not been the subject of any such actions, third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. We provide the specifications for most of our security products and contract with independent suppliers to engineer and manufacture those products and deliver them to us. Certain of these products contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. In addition, if an infringement by us were found to exist, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Some of our suppliers have agreed to indemnify us against any such infringement claim, but any infringement claim, even if not meritorious and/or covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources, which would adversely effect our operations and financial results. If our Mace brand name falls into common usage, we could lose the exclusive right to the brand name. The Mace registered name and trademark is important to our security business and defense spray business. If we do not defend the Mace name or allow it to fall into common usage, our security segment business could be adversely affected. If our original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) fail to adequately supply our products, our security products sales may suffer. Reliance upon OEMs, as well as industry supply conditions generally involves several additional risks, including the possibility of defective products (which can adversely affect our reputation for reliability), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our distribution schedules), and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). We have some single-sourced manufacturer relationships, either because alternative sources are not readily or economically available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If these sources are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in a timely and reliable manner, we could experience temporary distribution interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies, adversely affecting our results of operations. Even where alternative OEMs are available, qualification of the alternative manufacturers and establishment of reliable suppliers could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. Many States have and other States have stated an intention to enact laws (“electronic recycling laws”) requiring manufacturers of certain electronic products to pay annual registration fees and have recycling plans in place for electronic products sold at retail such as televisions, computers, and monitors. If the electronic recycling laws are applied to us, the sale of monitors by us may become prohibitively expensive. Our Security Segment sells monitors as part of the video security surveillance packages we market. The video security surveillance packages consist of cameras, digital video recorders and video monitors. We have taken the position with many states that our monitors are security monitors and are not subject to the laws they have enacted which generally refer to computer monitors. If we have to pay registration fees and have recycling plans for the monitors we sell, it may be prohibitively expensive to offer monitors as part of our security surveillance packages. The inability to offer monitors at a competitive price will place us at a competitive disadvantage . The businesses that manufacture our electronic surveillance products are located in foreign countries, making it difficult to recover damages if the manufacturers fail to meet their obligations. Our electronic surveillance products and many non-aerosol personal protection products are manufactured on an OEM basis. Most of the OEM suppliers we deal with are located in Asian countries and are paid a significant portion of an order in advance of the shipment of the product. We also have limited information on the OEM suppliers from which we purchase, including their financial strength, location and ownership of the actual manufacturing facilities producing the goods. If any of the OEM suppliers defaulted on their agreements with the Company, it would be difficult for the Company to obtain legal recourse because of the suppliers’ assets being located in foreign countries. If people are injured by our consumer safety products, we could be held liable and face damage awards. We face claims of injury allegedly resulting from our defense sprays, which we market as less-than-lethal. For example, we are aware of allegations that defense sprays used by law enforcement personnel resulted in deaths of prisoners and of suspects in custody. In addition to use or misuse by law enforcement agencies, the general public may pursue legal action against us based on injuries alleged to have been caused by our products. We may also face claims by purchasers of our electronic surveillance systems if they fail to operate properly during the commission of a crime. As the use of defense sprays and electronic surveillance systems by the public increases, we could be subject to additional product liability claims. We currently have a $25,000 deductible on our consumer safety products insurance policy, meaning that all such lawsuits, even unsuccessful ones and ones covered by insurance, cost the Company money. Furthermore, if our insurance coverage is exceeded, we will have to pay the excess liability directly. Our product liability insurance provides coverage of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. However, if we are required to directly pay a claim in excess of our coverage, our income will be significantly reduced, and in the event of a large claim, we could go out of business. 14 If governmental regulations regarding defense sprays change or are applied differently, our business could suffer. The distribution, sale, ownership and use of consumer defense sprays are legal in some form in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Restrictions on the manufacture or use of consumer defense sprays may be enacted, which would severely restrict the market for our products or increase our costs of doing business. Our defense sprays use hazardous materials which if not properly handled would result in our being liable for damages under environmental laws. Our consumer defense spray manufacturing operation currently incorporates hazardous materials, the use and emission of which are regulated by various state and federal environmental protection agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency. If we fail to comply with any environmental requirements, these changes or failures may expose us to significant liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Environmental Protection Agency conducted a site investigation at our Bennington, Vermont facility in January, 2008 and found the facility in need of remediation. See Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies. Risks Related to our Digital Media Marketing Segment We have lost the services of two senior executives in our Digital Media Marketing Segment, and as a result our business may suffer. The executive who headed the operations of our Linkstar operation left the Company’s employ at the end of July 2008 and the executive who headed the operations of the PromoPath subsidiary left the Company’s employ in January 2009. The Company has promoted Ronald Gdovic, the Chief Operating Officer of the Segment, to the position of President of the Segment. Mr. Gdovic is not as experienced in the digital media marketing business as the departed executives. The business plan for the Digital Media Marketing Segment is dependent on active growth and management. Without experienced executives it will be more difficult to execute the business plan. If the business plan is not executed, the Segment will have revenue loss and potentially a lack of profitability. Our current Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer lack experience in the Digital Media Marketing business sector. The members of the Company’s board of directors do not have any practical experience with e-commerce or digital media marketing advertising. Ronald Gdovic, the President of the Digital Media Marketing Segment currently reports to Dennis R. Raefield, the Company’s CEO, who prior to becoming CEO did not have any digital media marketing experience. The Nominating Committee has conducted a search for a director nominee with e-commerce experience; however, the Board has not committed to add a director with e-commerce or digital media marketing advertising expertise. Our e-commerce brands are not well known. Our e-commerce brands of Vioderm (anti-wrinkle products), TrimDay (diet supplement), Purity by Mineral Science (mineral based facial makeup), Eternal Minerals (Dead Sea spa products) and Extreme Brite White (a teeth whitening product) are relatively new. We have not yet been able to develop widespread awareness of our e-commerce brands. Lack of brand awareness could harm the success of our marketing campaigns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We have a concentration of our e-commerce business in limited products. E-Commerce revenues are currently generated from five product lines. The concentration of our business in limited products creates the risk of adverse financial impact if we are unable to continue to sell these products or unable to develop additional products. We believe that we can mitigate the financial impact of any decrease in sales by the development of new products, however we cannot predict the timing of or success of new products. We compete with many established e-commerce companies that have been in business longer than us. Current and potential e-commerce competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining online registrants and converting registrants into customers and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We need to attract and retain a large number of e-commerce customers who purchase our products on a recurring basis. Our e-commerce model is driven by the need to attract a large number of customers to our continuity program and to maintain customers for an extended period of time. We have fixed costs in obtaining an initial customer which can be defrayed only by a customer making further purchases. For our business to be profitable, we must convert a certain percentage of our initial customers to customers that purchase our products on a recurring monthly basis for a period of time. To do so, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and to introduce new high-quality products and services. There is no assurance we will have the resources, financial or otherwise, required to enhance or develop products and services. Further, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to improve our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose existing members and may fail to attract new customers. Failure to enhance or develop products and services or to respond to the needs of our customers in an effective or timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 15 Our customer acquisition costs may increase significantly. The customer acquisition cost of our business depends in part upon our ability to obtain placement on promotional internet sites at a reasonable cost. We currently pay for the placement of our products on third party promotional internet sites by paying the site operators a fixed fee for each customer we obtain from the site, (“CPA fee”). The CPA fee varies over time, depending upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. One of the factors that determine the amount of the CPA fee is the attractiveness of our products and how many consumers our products draw to a promotional website. Historically, we have used online advertising on promotional websites as the sole means of marketing our products. In general, the costs of online advertising have increased substantially and are expected to continue to increase as long as the demand for online advertising remains robust. We may not be able to pass these costs on in the form of higher product prices. Continuing increases in advertising costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our online marketing business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our online marketing business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services and products. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. Failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on our merchant and banking relationships, as well as strategic relationships with third parties, who provide us with payment processing solutions. Our e-commerce products are sold by us on the internet and are paid for by customers through credit cards. From time to time, VISA and MasterCard increase the fees that they charge processors. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. Our revenues from merchant account processing are dependent upon our continued merchant relationships which are highly sensitive and can be canceled if customer charge-backs escalate and generate concern that the company has not held back sufficient funds in reserve accounts to cover these charge-backs as well as result in significant charge-back fines. Cancellation by our merchant providers would most likely result in the loss of new customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We depend on credit card processing for a majority of our e-commerce business, including but not limited to Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Significant changes to the merchant operating regulations, merchant rules and guidelines, card acceptance methods and/or card authorization methods could significantly impact our revenues. Additionally our e-commerce membership programs are accepted under a negative option billing term (customers are charged monthly until they cancel), and change in regulation of negative option billing could significantly impact our revenue. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment. Our customers use credit cards to pay for our e-commerce products and for the products we market for third parties. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate internet use could damage our Digital Media Marketing business. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 16 Changes in government regulation and industry standards could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business. Laws and regulations that apply to internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. These regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the web and could adversely affect the demand for our advertising solutions or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States Congress has enacted internet legislation regarding children’s privacy, copyrights, sending of commercial email (e.g., the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003), and taxation. Other laws and regulations have been adopted and may be adopted in the future, and may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, “do not email” lists, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, export of encryption technology, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, taxation, and quality of products and services. This legislation could hinder growth in the use of the web generally and adversely affect our business. Moreover, it could decrease the acceptance of the web as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. The Company does not use any form of spam or spyware. Government enforcement actions could result in decreased demand for our products and services. The Federal Trade Commission and other governmental or regulatory bodies have increasingly focused on issues impacting online marketing practices and consumer protection. The Federal Trade Commission has conducted investigations of competitors and filed law suits against competitors. Some of the investigations and law suits have been settled by consent orders which have imposed fines and required changes with regard to how competitors conduct business. The New York Attorney General’s office has sued a major Internet marketer for alleged violations of legal restrictions against false advertising and deceptive business practices related to spyware. In our judgment, the marketing claims we make in advertisements we place to obtain new e-commerce customers are legally permissible. Governmental or regulatory authorities may challenge the legality of the advertising we place and the marketing claims we make. We could be subject to regulatory proceedings for past marketing campaigns, or could be required to make changes in our future marketing claims, either of which could adversely affect our revenues. Our business could be subject to regulation by foreign countries, new unforeseen laws and unexpected interpretations of existing laws, resulting in an increase cost of doing business. Due to the global nature of the web, it is possible that, although our transmissions originate in California and Pennsylvania, the governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, the growth and development of the market for internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. The laws governing the internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by the adoption or modification of industry standards, laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or the application of existing laws to the Internet or Internet-based advertising. We depend on third parties to manufacture all of the products we sell within our e-commerce division, and if we are unable to maintain these manufacturing and product supply relationships or enter into additional or different arrangements, we may fail to meet customer demand and our net sales and profitability may suffer as a result. In addition, shortages of raw ingredients, especially for our Purity mineral cosmetics line, could affect our supply chain and impede current and future sales and net revenues. All of our products are contract manufactured or supplied by third parties. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our other third-party manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products for us at any time and for any reason. In addition, our third-party manufacturers are not restricted from manufacturing our competitors’ products, including mineral-based products. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of suitable products because of the loss of one or more key vendors or manufacturers, our business and results of operations would suffer until we could make alternative supply arrangements. In addition, identifying and selecting alternative vendors would be time-consuming and expensive, and we might experience significant delays in production during this selection process. Our inability to secure adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would harm inventory levels, net sales and gross profit, and ultimately our results of operations. The quality of our e-commerce products depend on quality control of third party manufacturers. For our e-commerce products, third-party manufacturers may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or current or future regulatory requirements, which would require us to find alternative suppliers of our products. Our third-party manufacturers may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or applicable regulatory requirements. If we are forced to rely on products of inferior quality, then our customer satisfaction and brand reputation would likely suffer, which would lead to reduced net sales. 17 Within our e-commerce division, we manufacture and market health and beauty consumer products that are ingestible or applied topically. These products may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. In addition, we are vulnerable to claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. We also may be vulnerable to product liability claims from their use. Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings could result in our recall or discontinuance of sales of our products. Unexpected and undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing new products. In addition, consumers or industry analysts may assert claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects associated with our products or assertions that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be also could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that arise from the testing, manufacture and sale of our beauty products. Plaintiffs in the past have received substantial damage awards from other cosmetics companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. We currently maintain general liability insurance in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our business significantly, particularly if a claim were to result in adverse publicity or damage awards outside or in excess of our insurance policy limits. Risks Related to our Car Wash Segment Our car wash work force may expose us to claims that might adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability. We employ a large number of workers who perform manual labor at the car washes we operate. Many of the workers are paid at or slightly above minimum wage. Also, a large percentage of our car wash work force is composed of employees who have been employed by us for relatively short periods of time. This work force is constantly turning over. Our work force may subject us to financial claims in a variety of ways, such as: · claims by customers that employees damaged automobiles in our custody; · claims related to theft by employees; · claims by customers that our employees harassed or physically harmed them; · claims related to the inadvertent hiring of undocumented workers; · claims for payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; and · claims for violations of wage and hour requirements. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may rise to litigation, which could be costly and time consuming to our management team, and could have a negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically feasible rates Our car wash operations face governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and if we fail to or are unable to comply with those regulations, our business may suffer. We are governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that regulate the operation of our car wash centers and other car care services businesses. Other car care services and products, such as gasoline and lubrication, use a number of oil derivatives and other regulated hazardous substances. As a result, we are governed by environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things: · transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal, and handling of hazardous materials and wastes; · discharge of storm water; and · underground storage tanks. If uncontrolled hazardous substances are found on any of our properties, including leased property, or if we are otherwise found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, we could be responsible for clean-up costs, property damage, fines, or other penalties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Through our Car Wash Segment, we face a variety of potential environmental liabilities, including those arising out of improperly disposing waste oil or lubricants at our lube centers, and leaks from our underground gasoline storage tanks. If we improperly dispose of oil or other hazardous substances, or if our underground gasoline tanks leak, we could be assessed fines by federal or state regulatory authorities and/or be required to remediate the property. Although each case is different, and there can be no assurance as to the cost to remediate an environmental problem, if any, at one of our properties, the costs for remediation of a leaking underground storage tank typically range from $30,000 to $75,000. If our car wash equipment is not maintained, our car washes will not be operable. Many of our car washes have older equipment that requires frequent repair or replacement. Although we undertake to keep our car washing equipment in adequate operating condition, the operating environment in car washes results in frequent mechanical problems. If we fail to properly maintain the equipment in a car wash, that car wash could become inoperable or malfunction resulting in a loss of revenue, damage to vehicles and poorly washed vehicles. 18 The current difficult economic conditions make it more difficult to sell our Car Washes. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to locate additional buyers for our remaining car washes or that we will be able to consummate any further sales to potential buyers we do locate. The current economic climate has made it more difficult to sell our remaining car washes. Potential buyers of the car washes are finding it difficult to finance the purchase price. If we sell our Car Wash Segment, our revenues will decrease and our business may suffer. If we are able to sell our remaining car washes, our total revenues will decrease and our business will become reliant on the success of our Security Segment and our Digital Marketing Media Segment. Those businesses face significant risks as set forth herein and our reliance on them may impact our ability to generate positive operating income or cash flows from operations, may cause our financial results to become more volatile, or may otherwise materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and an investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be volatile. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the disposition of all or a significant portion of the assets that comprise our Car Wash Segment, which may or may not be on favorable terms; · technological innovations or new commercial products developed by us or our competitors; · changes in our, or our suppliers’ intellectual property portfolio; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · operating losses by us; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and · our ability to maintain our common stock listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in our revenues and income or in the price of our common stock, thereby reducing the value of an investment in our Company. We could lose our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market if our stock price remains below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, after the $1.00 minimum bid rule is reinstated. The loss of the listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would affect its value. Our common stock is listed on NASDAQ Global Market with a closing price of $0.68 at the close of the market on March 18, 2009. The NASDAQ Global Market rule requires that listed stock is subject to delisting if its price falls below $1.00 and for 30 consecutive days remains below $1.00. The delisting rule has been suspended through July 19, 2009. If the rule is reinstated on July 20, 2009, we may be subject to being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, if our stock remains below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days after July 20, 2009. Upon delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock would be traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market until we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days at which time we would be able to regain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our stock fails to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days during a 180-day grace period on the Nasdaq Capital Market or a 360-day grace period if compliance with certain core listing standards are demonstrated, we could receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market (together “Nasdaq-listed Stocks”). Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than Nasdaq-listed Stocks. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would be otherwise. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than Nasdaq-listed Stocks. If our stock is traded in the OTC market and a market maker sponsors us, we may have the price of our stock electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lack sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the Pink Sheets. The marketability of our stock would be even more limited if our price must be published on the Pink Sheets. Because we are a Delaware corporation, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could affect our stock price. We are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an entity who is an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203 an owner of 15% or more of the outstanding stock of the corporation) for a period of three years following the shareholders becoming an “interested shareholder,” unless approved in a prescribed manner. This provision of Delaware law may affect our ability to merge with, or to engage in other similar activities with, some other companies. This means that we may be a less attractive target to a potential acquirer who otherwise may be willing to pay a premium for our common stock above its market price. 19 If we issue our authorized preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be affected and other entities may be discouraged from seeking to acquire control of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be designated and issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. It is not possible to state the precise effect of preferred stock upon the rights of the holders of our common stock until the board of directors determines the respective preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the holders of one or more series or classes of the preferred stock. However, such effect might include: (i) reduction of the amount otherwise available for payment of dividends on common stock, to the extent dividends are payable on any issued shares of preferred stock, and restrictions on dividends on common stock if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears, (ii) dilution of the voting power of the common stock to the extent that the preferred stock has voting rights, and (iii) the holders of common stock not being entitled to share in our assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference granted to the holders of our preferred stock. The “blank check” preferred stock may be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an unsolicited attempt by another entity to acquire control of us and may therefore have an anti-takeover effect. Issuances of authorized preferred stock can be implemented, and have been implemented by some companies in recent years, with voting or conversion privileges intended to make an acquisition of a company more difficult or costly. Such an issuance, or the perceived threat of such an issuance, could discourage or limit the stockholders’ participation in certain types of transactions that might be proposed (such as a tender offer), whether or not such transactions were favored by the majority of the stockholders, and could enhance the ability of officers and directors to retain their positions. Our policy of not paying cash dividends on our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock. We have not paid in the past, and do not expect to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to reinvest in our business any cash otherwise available for dividends. Our decision not to pay cash dividends may negatively affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At March 18, 2009, there were no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports. ITEM 