ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we do not raise additional capital, we may need to substantially reduce the scale of our operations and curtail our business plan. Our business plan involves growing through acquisitions and internal development, each of which requires significant capital. Our capital requirements also include working capital for daily operations and significant capital for equipment purchases. Although we had positive working capital of $14.9 million as of December 31, 2005, we have a history of net losses and in some years we have ended our fiscal year with a negative working capital balance. Our positive working capital declined by $2.9 million from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. To the extent that we lack cash to meet our future capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through bank borrowings and significant additional equity and/or debt financings, which may result in significant increases in leverage and interest expense and/or substantial dilution of our outstanding equity. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may need to substantially reduce the scale of our operations and curtail our business plan. If we are not able to manage growth, our business plan may not be realized. 8 Our business objectives include developing our Security Segment, both internally and through acquisitions, if we can do so under advantageous terms. As such, our business plan is predicated on growth. If we succeed in growing, it will place significant burdens on our management and on our operational and other resources. For example, it may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our existing business; we must integrate management information and accounting systems of an acquired business into our current systems; our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; we may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience; and we may lose key employees of an acquired business. We will also need to attract, train, motivate, retain, and supervise senior managers and other employees. If we fail to manage these burdens successfully, one or more of the acquisitions could be unprofitable, the shift of our management’s focus could harm our other businesses, and we may be forced to abandon our business plan, which relies on growth. If we violate the financial covenants with our lenders, our borrowings may be accelerated. Our bank debt borrowings as of December 31, 2005 were $26.7 million, substantially all of which is secured by mortgages against certain of our real property. Of such borrowings, $2.2 million is classified as current as it is due in less than 12 months from December 31, 2005. Our two most significant borrowings are secured notes payable to General Motors Acceptance Corp. (“GMAC”) in the amount of $9.7 million, $8.8 million of which was classified as non-current debt at December 31, 2005, and secured notes payable to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”) the successor of Bank One, Texas, N.A. in the amount of $13.4 million, $12.4 million of which was classified as non-current debt at December 31, 2005. The GMAC and Chase agreements contain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial reporting requirements, the maintenance of certain levels of tangible net worth, maintenance of certain levels of unencumbered cash and marketable securities, limitations on capital spending and the maintenance of certain debt coverage ratios on a consolidated level. The Chase agreement is our only debt agreement that contains an express prohibition on incurring additional debt for borrowed money without the approval of the lender. None of our other agreements contain such a prohibition. Our warehouse and office facility in Farmers Branch, Texas, twenty five car washes and one truck wash are encumbered by mortgages. At December 31, 2005, we were not in compliance with our semi-annual consolidated debt coverage ratio of at least 1.25:1 related to our GMAC notes payable. The Company’s debt coverage ratio related to the GMAC notes payable was 1.07:1 at December 31, 2005. Additionally, the Mace guaranty agreement with GMAC requires the Company to provide GMAC audited, reviewed or compiled financial statements by the Company’s independent certified public accountants within 90 days of the Company’s fiscal year end. The Company was not able to timely provide the required year end audited financial statements. GMAC granted us a waiver of acceleration related to the non-compliance with the debt coverage ratio covenant and delinquency in providing the Company’s year end audited financial statements at December 31, 2005, and for measurement periods through April 1, 2007 and, accordingly, a portion of the GMAC notes payable was reflected as non-current on our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005. If we are not able to achieve a debt coverage ratio of at least 1.25:1, and we cannot obtain further waivers of acceleration, the GMAC notes may be reflected as current in future balance sheets and as a result our stock price may decline. The Company entered into amendments to the Chase term loan agreements effective March 31, 2004. The amended debt coverage ratio with Chase requires the Company to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to debt service of 1.05:1 at September 30, 2004 and thereafter. The Company’s debt coverage ratio related to the Chase term loan agreement was 1.09:1 at December 31, 2005, which was in compliance with this Chase covenant, as amended. The amended Chase term loan agreement also limits annual capital expenditures to $1.0 million and requires the Company to provide Chase with a Form 10-K and audited financial statements within 120 days of the Company’s fiscal year end, as well as internal certified financial statements and a Form 10-Q within 60 days after the end of each fiscal quarter. The Company was not able to timely provide the required year end audited financial statements or the first quarter Form 10-Q. The Company incurred capital expenditures of $1.4 million in 2005 and, accordingly, was not in compliance with this Chase covenant. The Company received a waiver of acceleration from Chase at December 31, 2005 and for measurement periods through January 1, 2007 related to exceeding the annual capital expenditure limit and the untimely financial statement filings at December 31, 2005 and for measurement periods through January 1, 2007 and, accordingly, a portion of the Chase notes payable was reflected as non-current on our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005. The Chase amendment also requires the maintenance of a minimum total unencumbered cash and marketable securities balance of $5.0 million. This cash balance requirement will be lowered to $1 million upon the Company returning to a debt coverage ratio of at least 1.10:1. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants and we cannot obtain further waivers, the Chase notes may be reflected as current in future balance sheets and as a result our stock price may decline. Our ongoing ability to comply with the debt covenants under our credit arrangements and refinance our debt depends largely on our achievement of adequate levels of cash flow. Our cash flow has been and could continue to be adversely affected by weather patterns and economic conditions. In the future, if our cash flows are less than expected or debt service, including interest expense, increases more than expected, we may continue to be out of compliance with the Chase and GMAC covenants and need to seek additional waivers or amendments. 9 If we default on any of the Chase or GMAC covenants and are not able to obtain further amendments or waivers of acceleration, Chase debt totaling $13.4 million and GMAC debt totaling $9.7 million, including debt recorded as long-term debt at December 31, 2005, could become due and payable on demand, and Chase and/or GMAC could foreclose on the assets pledged in support of the relevant indebtedness. If our assets (including up to 25 of our car wash facilities and one truck wash) are foreclosed upon, revenues from our Car and Truck Wash Segment, which comprised approximately 71% and 64% of our total revenues for fiscal year 2004 and 2005, respectively, would be severely impacted and we may be unable to continue to operate our business. Even if the debt were accelerated without foreclosure, it would be very difficult for us to continue to operate our business and we may go out of business. We have reported net losses in the past. If we continue to report net losses, the price of our common stock may decline, or we could go out of business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we reported a net loss although our business as a whole generated positive cash flow from operations. The majority of the reported losses in recent years related to non-cash impairment charges of intangible assets. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 142, which became effective on January 1, 2002, we no longer amortize goodwill and certain intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives. Additionally, SFAS 142 requires annual fair value based impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets identified with indefinite useful lives. As a result, we may be required to record additional impairments in the future, which could materially reduce our earnings and equity. If we lose the services of our executive officers, our business may suffer. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers and do not replace them with experienced personnel, that loss of talent and experience will make our business plan, which is dependent on active growth and management, more difficult to implement. The primary term of the employment agreements of Robert M. Kramer, Gregory M. Krzemien, and Ronald R. Pirollo expired on March 26, 2003. Mr. Kramer is the chief operating officer of our Car and Truck Wash Segment, and our general counsel and secretary; Mr. Krzemien is our chief financial officer and treasurer; and Mr. Pirollo is our chief accounting officer and corporate controller. Messrs. Kramer and Krzemien are working on a month-to-month at-will basis, under the provisions of their employment agreements. Mr. Pirollo is working on an at will basis under the provisions of his employment contract. Without long term employment contracts, we may lose the services of any one or more of Messrs. Kramer, Krzemien and Pirollo, each of whom has been involved in our management for several years and would be difficult to replace. In addition, we do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on our executive officers. If our insurance is inadequate, we could face significant losses. We maintain various insurance coverages for our assets and operations. These coverages include property coverages including business interruption protection for each location. We maintain commercial general liability coverage in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. We also maintain workers’ compensation policies in every state in which we operate. Commencing July 2002, as a result of increasing costs of the Company’s insurance program, including auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation coverage, we are insured through participation in a captive insurance program with other unrelated businesses. The Company maintains excess coverage through occurrence-based policies. With respect to our auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation policies, we are required to set aside an actuarial determined amount of cash in a restricted “loss fund” account for the payment of claims under the policies. We expect to fund these accounts annually as required by the insurance company. Should funds deposited exceed claims incurred and paid, unused deposited funds are returned to us with interest after the third anniversary of the policy year-end. The captive insurance program is further secured by a letter of credit from Mace in the amount of $973,000 at December 31, 2005. The Company records a monthly expense for losses up to the reinsurance limit per claim based on the Company’s tracking of claims and the insurance company’s reporting of amounts paid on claims plus their estimate of reserves for possible future payments. There can be no assurance that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event a claim is made against us, or that we will be able to maintain in place such insurance at reasonable prices. An uninsured or under insured claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to our Security Segment If we are not able to operate our Electronic Surveillance Products Division effectively, our business will suffer. 10 In 2002, we expanded our Security Segment by adding electronic surveillance products and components. We are incurring expenses to develop and further expand these products. There are numerous risks associated with expanding our video surveillance systems and components that may prevent us from operating the Security Segment profitably, including, among others: risks associated with products which do not function properly; risks associated with unanticipated liabilities of the acquired companies; risks inherent with our management having limited experience in the electronic surveillance product market; risks relating to the size and number of competitors in the video system and component product market, many of whom may be more experienced or better financed; risks associated with the costs of entering into new markets and expansion of product lines in existing markets; risks associated with rapidly evolving technology and having inventory become obsolete; risks associated with purchasing inventory before having orders for that inventory; risks attendant to locating and maintaining reliable sources of OEM products and component supplies in the electronic surveillance industry; risks related to retaining key employees involved in future technology development and communications with OEM suppliers; and risks associated with developing and introducing new products in order to maintain competitiveness in a rapidly changing marketplace. If we are not able to operate our electronic surveillance products division effectively, our operating and financial results could be adversely impacted. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Although we have not been the subject of any such actions, third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. We design most of our security products and contract with independent suppliers to manufacture those products and deliver them to us. Certain of these products contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. In addition, if an infringement by us were found to exist, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Most of our suppliers have agreed to indemnify us against any such infringement claim, but any infringement claim, even if not meritorious and/or covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources. The Mace registered name and trademark is important to our security business. If we do not defend the Mace name or allow it to fall into common usage, our security segment business could be adversely affected. If our original equipment manufacturers fail to adequately supply our products, our security products sales may suffer. Our electronic surveillance products are manufactured on an OEM basis. Reliance upon OEMs, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of defective products (which can adversely affect our reputation for reliability), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our distribution schedules), and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). We have some single-sourced manufacturer relationships, either because alternative sources are not readily or economically available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If these sources are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in a timely and reliable manner, we could experience temporary distribution interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies, adversely affecting our results of operations. Even where alternative OEMs are available, qualification of the alternative manufacturers and establishment of reliable suppliers could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. If people are injured by our consumer safety products, we could be held liable and face damage awards. We face claims of injury allegedly resulting from our defense sprays, which we market as less-than-lethal. For example, we are aware of allegations that defense sprays used by law enforcement personnel resulted in deaths of prisoners and of suspects in custody. In addition to use or misuse by law enforcement agencies, the general public may pursue legal action against us based on injuries alleged to have been caused by our products. We may also face claims by purchasers of our electronic surveillance systems, if they fail to operate properly during the commission of a crime. As the use of defense sprays and electronic surveillance systems by the public increase, we could be subject to additional product liability claims. We have a $25,000 deductible on our consumer safety products insurance policy, meaning that all such lawsuits, even unsuccessful ones and ones covered by insurance, cost the Company money. Furthermore, if our insurance coverage is exceeded, we will have to pay the excess liability directly. Our product liability insurance provides coverage of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. However, if we are required to directly pay a claim in excess of our coverage, our income will be significantly reduced, and in the event of a large claim, we could go out of business. 11 If governmental regulations change or are applied differently, our business could suffer. The distribution, sale, ownership and use of consumer defense sprays are legal in some form in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Restrictions on the manufacture or use of consumer defense sprays may be enacted, which would severely restrict the market for our products or increase our costs of doing business. Some of our consumer defense spray manufacturing operations currently incorporate hazardous materials, the use and emission of which are regulated by various state and federal environmental protection agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency. We believe that we are in compliance with all current state and local statutes governing our handling and disposal of these hazardous materials, but if there are any changes in environmental permit or regulatory requirements, or if we fail to comply with any environmental requirements, these changes or failures may expose us to significant liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Risks Related to our Car and Truck Wash Segment We face a criminal investigation regarding the hiring of undocumented workers at our car washes that could result in fines and penalties. On March 13, 2006, the Company learned that the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania is investigating the Company for the alleged hiring of undocumented workers at the Company’s car washes. The Company’s Audit Committee retained independent outside counsel (“Special Counsel”) to conduct an independent investigation of the Company’s hiring practices at the Company’s car washes and other related matters. Special Counsel provided a written summary of findings on April 18, 2006 to the Company’s Audit Committee. The investigative findings included, among other things, a finding that the Company’s internal controls for financial reporting at the corporate level are adequate and appropriate, and that there is no financial statement impact implicated by the Company’s hiring practices, except for a potential contingent liability. Beginning on April 21, 2006, the Special Counsel began to receive for review some additional and previously requested but unavailable documents and information. On May 18, 2006, Special Counsel issued its Review of Information Supplemental to Internal Investigation which states that the review of the additional documents and information has not changed the conclusions contained in the April 18, 2006 summary of findings. There is a possibility that the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania may prosecute the Company at the conclusion of its investigation. Violations of law may result in civil, administrative or criminal fines or penalties. Due to the ongoing nature of the criminal investigation, it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of the investigation or the impact of costs of ultimately resolving this matter on our results of operations or financial condition. However, any fees, expenses, fines or penalties which might be incurred by the Company in connection with the hiring of undocumented workers may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made no provision for any future costs associated with the investigations or any future costs associated with the Company’s defense or negotitations with governmental authorities to resolve these outstanding issues. Our car wash work force may expose us to claims that might adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability. We employ a large number of workers that perform manual labor at the car washes we own. Many of the workers are paid at or slightly above minimum wage. Also, a large percentage of our car wash work force is composed of employees that have been employed by us for relatively short periods of time. This work force is constantly turning over. Our work force may subject us to financial claims in a variety of ways, such as: · claims by customers that employees damaged automobiles in our custody; · claims related to theft by employees; · claims by customers that our employees harassed or physically harmed them; · claims related to the inadvertent hiring of undocumented workers; · claims for payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; and 12 · claims for violations of wage and hour requirements. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may rise to litigation, which could be costly and time consuming to our management team, and could have negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically feasible rates. If consumer demand for our car wash service drops, our business will suffer. More than fifty percent of our revenues are derived from our Car and Truck Wash Segment. As such, our financial condition and results of operations will depend substantially on continued consumer demand for car wash services. Our car wash business depends on consumers choosing to employ professional services to wash their cars rather than washing their cars themselves or not washing their cars at all. Also, seasonal trends in some areas affect our car wash business. In particular, long periods of rain and cloudy weather can adversely affect our car wash business as people typically do not wash their cars during such periods. Additionally, extended periods of warm, dry weather may encourage customers to wash their cars themselves which also can adversely affect our car wash business. If there is a drop in consumer demand, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. We face significant competition and if we cannot compete effectively we may lose money and the value of our securities could decline. The car care industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on location, customer service, available services, and price. We face competition from both inside and outside the car care industry, including gas stations, gasoline companies, automotive companies, specialty stores and convenience stores that offer automated car wash services. Because barriers to entry into the car care industry are relatively low, competition may be expected to continually arise from new sources not currently competing with us. In some cases, our competitors may have greater financial and operating resources than we do. If we cannot effectively compete, our operating results are likely to be negatively effected. Our car wash operations face governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and if we fail to or are unable to comply with those regulations, our business may suffer. We are governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, that regulate the operation of our car wash centers and other car care services businesses. Other car care services, such as gasoline and lubrication, use a number of oil derivatives and other regulated hazardous substances. As a result, we are governed by environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things: i. transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal, and handling of hazardous materials and wastes; ii. discharge of storm water; and iii. underground storage tanks. If uncontrolled hazardous substances were found on any of our properties, including leased property, or if we were otherwise found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, we could be responsible for clean-up costs, property damage, fines, or other penalties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Through our Car and Truck Wash Segment, we face a variety of potential environmental liabilities, including those arising out of improperly disposing waste oil or lubricants at our lube centers, improper maintenance of oil discharge ponds, which exist at two of our truck washes, and leaks from our underground gasoline storage tanks. If we improperly dispose of oil or other hazardous substances, or if our oil discharge ponds or underground gasoline tanks leak, we could be assessed fines by federal or state regulatory authorities and/or be required to remediate the property. Although each case is different, and there can be no assurance as to the cost to remediate an environmental problem, if any, at one of our properties, the costs for remediation and removal of a leaking discharge pond typically range from $150,000 to $200,000, and the costs for remediation of a leaking underground storage tank typically range from $30,000 to $75,000. If our car wash equipment is not maintained, our car washes will not be operable. 13 Many of our car washes have older equipment that requires frequent repair or replacement. Although we undertake to keep our car washing equipment in proper operating condition, the operating environment in car washes results in frequent mechanical problems. If we fail to properly maintain the equipment in a car wash, that car wash could become inoperable or malfunction resulting in a loss of revenue, damage to vehicles and poorly washed vehicles. Risk Related to the Sale of our Car and Truck Wash Segment If we sell our Car and Truck Wash Segment, our revenues will decrease and our business may suffer. Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated is advising us on the possible sale of our car washes. On February 28, 2006, we entered into an agreement with C.W. Acquisition, LLC to sell our 12 Phoenix, Arizona car washes for $19.5 million. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to locate additional potential buyers for our remaining car washes or that we will be able to consummate any further sales to potential buyers we do locate. If the transaction with C.W. Acquisition, LLC is completed, the revenues within our car and truck wash segment will decrease. In addition if we are able to sell our remaining car washes, our total revenues will decrease and our business will become reliant on the success of our Security Segment. Our Security Segment faces significant risks as set forth herein and may impact our ability to generate positive operating income or cash flows from operations, may cause our financial results to become more volatile, or may otherwise materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to our Stock Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and your investment may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock, has in the past been, and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the disposition of all or a significant portion of the assets that comprise our Car and Truck Wash Segment, which may or may not be on favorable terms; · technological innovations or new commercial products developed by us or our competitors; · changes in our, or our suppliers’, intellectual property portfolio; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · operating losses by us; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and · our ability to maintain our common stock listing on the Nasdaq National Market. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in our revenues and income or in the price of our common stock, thereby reducing the value of an investment in our Company. We have failed to file our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 when required, and the failure will result in the loss of our listing on the Nasdaq National Market if we do not file the March 31, 2006 Form 10-Q by August 15, 2006. The loss of our Nasdaq National Market listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would adversely affect its value. 14 On May 17, 2006, the Company received a Nasdaq Staff Determination that the Company was not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) for failing to timely file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 (“Form 10-Q”). The May 17, 2006 Staff Determination was in addition to the Nasdaq Staff Determination received by the Company on April 19, 2006, regarding the Company being in violation of Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) for not timely filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (“Form 10-K”). The non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) makes the Company’s common stock subject to being delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market. On May 25, 2006, the Company attended a hearing with respect to the May 17, 2006 and April 19, 2006 Nasdaq Staff Determinations before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (“Panel”) to request an exception to its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). By operation of Marketplace Rule 4805(a), the delisting of the Company’s common stock is stayed pending the Panel’s review and determination. The Panel issued its ruling on June 28, 2006. The Panel granted an exception to the Company allowing the Company's common stock to remain listed provided the Form 10-K and Form 10-Q are filed by August 15, 2006 and the Company remains in compliance with all other listing requirements. There can be no assurance that the Company will file its March 31, 2006 Form 10-Q by August 15, 2006. Upon delisting, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq National Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. If our stock is traded in the OTC market and a market maker sponsors us, we may have the price of our stock electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lack sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the “Pink Sheets.” The marketability of our stock will be even more limited if our price must be published on the “Pink Sheets.” We could lose our listing on the Nasdaq National Market if our stock price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, and the loss of the listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would affect its value. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market with a bid price of $2.37 at the close of the market on June 16, 2006. Although the recent closing prices of our stock have been well in excess of $1.00, in 2004 our stock traded at a price as low as $1.78. If the price of our common stock falls below $1.00 and for 30 consecutive days remains below $1.00, we are subject to being delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq National Market, our stock would be traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market until we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days at which time we can regain our listing on the Nasdaq National Market. If our stock fails to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days during a 180-day grace period on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or a 360-day grace period if compliance with certain core listing standards are demonstrated, we could receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market (together “Nasdaq-Listed Stocks”). Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. If our stock is traded in the OTC market and a market maker sponsors us, we may have the price of our stock electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lack sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the “Pink Sheets.” The marketability of our stock will be even more limited if our price must be published on the “Pink Sheets.” Because we are a Delaware corporation, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could affect our stock price. We are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an entity who is an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years, unless approved in a prescribed manner. This provision of Delaware law may affect our ability to merge with, or to engage in other similar activities with, some other companies. This means that we may be a less attractive target to a potential acquirer who otherwise may be willing to pay a premium for our common stock above its market price. If we issue our authorized preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be affected and other entities may be discouraged from seeking to acquire control of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be designated and issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. It is not possible to state the precise effect of preferred stock upon the rights of the holders of our common stock until the board of directors determines the respective preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the holders of one or more series or classes of the preferred stock. However, such effect might include: (i) reduction of the amount otherwise available for payment of dividends on common stock, to the extent dividends are payable on any issued shares of preferred stock, and restrictions on dividends on common stock if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears, (ii) dilution of the voting power of the common stock to the extent that the preferred stock has voting rights, and (iii) the holders of common stock not being entitled to share in our assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference granted to the holders of our preferred stock. 15 The “blank check” preferred stock may be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an unsolicited attempt by another entity to acquire control of us and may therefore have an anti-takeover effect. Issuances of authorized preferred stock can be implemented, and have been implemented by some companies in recent years, with voting or conversion privileges intended to make an acquisition of a company more difficult or costly. Such an issuance, or the perceived threat of such an issuance, could discourage or limit the stockholders’ participation in certain types of transactions that might be proposed (such as a tender offer), whether or not such transactions were favored by the majority of the stockholders, and could enhance the ability of officers and directors to retain their positions. Our policy of not paying cash dividends on our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock. We have not paid in the past, and do not expect to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to reinvest in our business any cash otherwise available for dividends. Our decision not to pay cash dividends may negatively affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 