ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to finance the growth of our business, our stock price could decline. Our business plan involves growing our Security Segment and Digital Media Marketing Segments through acquisitions and internal development, and divesting of our car washes through third party sales. The growth of our Security Segment and Digital Media Segment requires significant capital that we hope to partially fund through the sale of our car washes. Our capital requirements also include working capital for daily operations and capital for equipment purchases. Although we had positive working capital of $17.8 million as of December 31, 2007, we have a history of net losses and in some years we have ended our fiscal year with a negative working capital balance. Our positive working capital decreased by approximately $8.8 million from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 principally due to the purchase of Linkstar in the quarter ended September 30, 2007. To the extent that we lack cash to meet our future capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through bank borrowings and additional equity and/or debt financings, which may result in significant increases in leverage and interest expense and/or substantial dilution of our outstanding equity. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may need to substantially reduce the scale of our operations and curtail our business plan. Although we have generated cash from the sale of our car washes, there is no guarantee that we will be able to sell our remaining car washes. If we fail to manage the growth of our business, our stock price could decline. Our business plan is predicated on growth. If we succeed in growing, it will place significant burdens on our management and on our operational and other resources. For example, it may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our existing business; we must integrate management information and accounting systems of an acquired business into our current systems; our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; we may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience; and we may lose key employees of an acquired business. We will also need to attract, train, motivate, retain, and supervise senior managers and other employees. If we fail to manage these burdens successfully, one or more of the acquisitions could be unprofitable, the shift of our management’s focus could harm our other businesses, and we may be forced to abandon our business plan, which relies on growth. 10 We have debt secured by mortgages, which can be foreclosed upon if we default on the debt. Our bank debt borrowings as of December 31, 2007 were $13.6 million, including capital lease obligations and borrowings related to discontinued operations, substantially all of which is secured by mortgages against certain of our real property (including up to 15 of our car wash facilities and one truck wash at December 31, 2007). Our most significant borrowings are secured notes payable to JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”) in the amount of $10.5 million. We have in the past violated loan covenants in our Chase agreements. We have obtained waivers for our violations of the Chase agreements. Our ongoing ability to comply with the debt covenants under our credit arrangements and refinance our debt depends largely on our achievement of adequate levels of cash flow. Our cash flow has been and could continue to be adversely affected by the expenses of the ongoing criminal immigration investigation, weather patterns and economic conditions. In the future, if our cash flows are less than expected or debt service, including interest expense, increases more than expected, we may continue to be out of compliance with the loan covenants and need to seek waivers or amendments. If we are in default on loan covenants and are not able to obtain amendments or waivers of acceleration, our debt could become due and payable on demand, and Chase could foreclose on the assets pledged in support of the relevant indebtedness. If our assets (including up to 15 of our car wash facilities at December 31, 2007) are foreclosed upon, revenues from our Car and Truck Wash Segment, which comprised 36.5% of our total revenues for the fiscal year 2007, would be severely impacted and we may go out of business. Our loans with Chase have financial covenants that restrict our operations, and which can cause our loans to be accelerated. Our secured notes payable to Chase total $10.5 million, $4.9 million of which was classified as non-current debt at December 31, 2007. The Chase agreements contain affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain levels of tangible net worth, maintenance of certain levels of unencumbered cash and marketable securities, limitations on capital spending, and certain financial reporting requirements. Our Chase agreements are the only debt agreements that contain an express prohibition on incurring additional debt without the approval of the lender. None of our other agreements contain such a prohibition. The Chase term loan agreements also limit capital expenditures annually to $1.0 million, requires the Company to provide Chase with a Form 10-K and audited financial statements within 120 days of the Company’s fiscal year end and a Form 10-Q within 60 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, and requires the maintenance of a minimum total unencumbered cash and marketable securities balance of $5 million. If we are unable to satisfy the Chase covenants and we cannot obtain further waivers or amendments to our loan agreements, the Chase notes may be reflected as current in future balance sheets and as a result our stock price may decline. We have reported net losses in the past. If we continue to report net losses, the price of our common stock may decline, or we could go out of business. We reported net losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and we reported negative cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Although a portion of the reported losses in past years related to non-cash impairment charges of intangible assets under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 142 and non-cash stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R), we may continue to report net losses and negative cash flow in the future. Additionally, SFAS 142 requires annual fair value based impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets identified with indefinite useful lives. As a result, we may be required to record additional impairments in the future, which could materially reduce our earnings and equity. If we continue to report net losses and negative cash flows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets and thus above average profit margins will likely attract additional competitors. Our competitors may develop products and services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than our products and services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than us. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to offer superior products and services. Failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures could seriously harm our business. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, mistakes and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Any failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our executive officers, our business may suffer. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers and do not replace them with experienced personnel, that loss of talent and experience will make our business plan, which is dependent on active growth and management, more difficult to implement and could adversely impact our operations. 11 If our insurance is inadequate, we could face significant losses. We maintain various insurance coverages for our assets and operations. These coverages include property coverages including business interruption protection for each location. We maintain commercial general liability coverage in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. We also maintain workers’ compensation policies in every state in which we operate. Commencing July 2002, as a result of increasing costs of the Company’s insurance program, including auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation coverage, we are insured through participation in a captive insurance program with other unrelated businesses. The Company maintains excess coverage through occurrence-based policies. With respect to our auto, general liability, and workers’ compensation policies, we are required to set aside an actuarial determined amount of cash in a restricted “loss fund” account for the payment of claims under the policies. We expect to fund these accounts annually as required by the insurance company. Should funds deposited exceed claims incurred and paid, unused deposited funds are returned to us with interest after the fifth anniversary of the policy year-end. The captive insurance program is further secured by a letter of credit from Mace in the amount of $1,065,000 at December 31, 2007. The Company records a monthly expense for losses up to the reinsurance limit per claim based on the Company’s tracking of claims and the insurance company’s reporting of amounts paid on claims plus an estimate of reserves for possible future losses on reported claims and claims incurred but not reported. There can be no assurance that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event a claim is made against us, or that we will be able to maintain in place such insurance at reasonable prices. An uninsured or under insured claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to our Security Segment We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Although we have not been the subject of any such actions, third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. We provide the specifications for most of our security products and contract with independent suppliers to engineer and manufacture those products and deliver them to us. Certain of these products contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. In addition, if an infringement by us were found to exist, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Some of our suppliers have agreed to indemnify us against any such infringement claim, but any infringement claim, even if not meritorious and/or covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources, which would adversely effect our operations and financial results. If our Mace brand name falls into common usage, we could lose the exclusive right to the brand name. The Mace registered name and trademark is important to our security business and defense spray business. If we do not defend the Mace name or allow it to fall into common usage, our security segment business could be adversely affected. The businesses that manufacturer our electronic surveillance products are located in foreign countries, making it difficult to recover damages, if the manufacturers fail to meet their obligations. Our electronic surveillance products are manufactured on an OEM basis. Most of the OEM suppliers we deal with are located in Asian countries and are paid a significant portion of an order in advance of the shipment of the product. We also have limited information on the OEM suppliers from which we purchase, including their financial strength, location and ownership of the actual manufacturing facilities producing the goods. If any of the OEM suppliers defaulted on their agreement with the Company, it would be difficult for the Company to obtain legal recourse because of the suppliers’ assets being located in foreign countries. If our original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) fail to adequately supply our products, our security products sales may suffer. Reliance upon OEMs, as well as industry supply conditions generally involves several additional risks, including the possibility of defective products (which can adversely affect our reputation for reliability), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our distribution schedules), and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). We have some single-sourced manufacturer relationships, either because alternative sources are not readily or economically available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If these sources are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in a timely and reliable manner, we could experience temporary distribution interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies, adversely affecting our results of operations. Even where alternative OEMs are available, qualification of the alternative manufacturers and establishment of reliable suppliers could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. 12 If people are injured by our consumer safety products, we could be held liable and face damage awards. We face claims of injury allegedly resulting from our defense sprays, which we market as less-than-lethal. For example, we are aware of allegations that defense sprays used by law enforcement personnel resulted in deaths of prisoners and of suspects in custody. In addition to use or misuse by law enforcement agencies, the general public may pursue legal action against us based on injuries alleged to have been caused by our products. We may also face claims by purchasers of our electronic surveillance systems, if they fail to operate properly during the commission of a crime. As the use of defense sprays and electronic surveillance systems by the public increase, we could be subject to additional product liability claims. We have a $25,000 deductible on our consumer safety products insurance policy, meaning that all such lawsuits, even unsuccessful ones and ones covered by insurance, cost the Company money. Furthermore, if our insurance coverage is exceeded, we will have to pay the excess liability directly. Our product liability insurance provides coverage of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. However, if we are required to directly pay a claim in excess of our coverage, our income will be significantly reduced, and in the event of a large claim, we could go out of business. If governmental regulations regarding defense sprays change or are applied differently, our business could suffer. The distribution, sale, ownership and use of consumer defense sprays are legal in some form in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Restrictions on the manufacture or use of consumer defense sprays may be enacted, which would severely restrict the market for our products or increase our costs of doing business. Our defense sprays use hazardous materials which if not properly handled would result in our being liable for damages under environmental laws. Our consumer defense spray manufacturing operation currently incorporates hazardous materials, the use and emission of which are regulated by various state and federal environmental protection agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency. We also store a chemical component of tear gas in our Bennington, Vermont facility in such quantities that if all the chemical was released into the air, could cause an evacuation of Bennington, Vermont until the chemical broke down into its components. If we fail to comply with any environmental requirements, these changes or failures may expose us to significant liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Environmental Protection Agency conducted a site investigation at our Bennington, Vermont facility in January, 2008 and found the facility in need of remediation. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Risks Related to our Digital Media Marketing Segment Our online marketing business lacks long-term contracts with clients. Our clients who retain us to perform online marketing of their products hire us under contracts of less than twelve months. As a result, our online marketing revenues are difficult to predict and may vary significantly. Because we sometimes incur costs based on expectations of future revenues, our failure to predict future revenues accurately could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our e-commerce brands are not well known. Our e-commerce brands of Vioderm (anti-wrinkle products), TrimDay (diet supplement) and Purity by Mineral Science (mineral based facial makeup) are relatively new. We have not yet been able to develop widespread awareness of our e-commerce brands. Lack of brand awareness could harm the success of our marketing campaigns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We have a concentration of our e-commerce business in limited products. E-Commerce revenues are currently generated from three product lines. The concentration of our business in limited products creates the risk of adverse financial impact if we are unable to continue to sell these products or unable to develop new additional products. We believe that we can mitigate the financial impact of any decrease in sales by the development of new products, however we cannot predict the timing of or success of new products. We compete with many established e-commerce companies that have been in business longer than us. Current and potential e-commerce and online marketing competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining online registrants and converting registrants into customers and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We need to attract and retain a large number of e-commerce customers who purchase our products on a reoccurring basis. Our e-commerce model is driven by the need to attract a large number of customers to our continuity program and to maintain customers for an extended period of time. We have fixed costs in obtaining an initial customer which can be defrayed only by a customer making further purchases. For our business to be profitable, we must convert a certain percentage of our initial customers to customers that purchase our products on a reoccurring monthly basis for a period of time. To do so, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and to introduce new high-quality products and services. There is no assurance we will have the resources, financial or otherwise, required to enhance or develop products and services. Further, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to improve our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose existing members and may fail to attract new customers. Failure to enhance or develop products and services or to respond to the needs of our customers in an effective or timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 13 Our member acquisition costs may increase significantly. The customer acquisition cost of our business depends in part upon our ability to purchase advertising at a reasonable cost. Advertising costs vary over time, depending upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Historically, we have used online advertising as the sole means of marketing our products. In general, the costs of online advertising have increased substantially and are expected to continue to increase as long as the demand for online advertising remains robust. We may not be able to pass these costs on in the form of higher product prices. Continuing increases in advertising costs could thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our online marketing business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our online marketing business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services and products. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. Failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on our merchant and banking relationships, as well as strategic relationships with third parties, who provide us with payment processing solutions. Our e-commerce products are sold by us on the internet and are paid for by customers through credit card. From time to time, VISA and MasterCard increase the fees that they charge processors. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. Our revenues from merchant account processing are dependent upon our continued merchant relationships which are highly sensitive and can be canceled if customer charge-backs escalate and generate concern that the company has held back sufficient funds in reserve accounts to cover these charge-backs. Cancellation by our merchant providers would most likely result in the loss of new customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We depend on credit card processing for a majority of our e-commerce business, to include but not be limited to Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Significant changes to the merchant operating regulations, merchant rules and guidelines, card acceptance methods and or card authorization methods could significantly impact our revenues. Additionally our e-commerce membership programs are accepted under a negative option billing term (customers are charged monthly until they cancel), and change in regulation of negative option billing could significantly impact our revenue. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment. Our customers use credit cards to pay for our e-commerce products and for the products we market for third parties. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate internet use could damage our Digital Media Marketing business. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 14 Our online marketing business depends on strategic relationships with our partners. We expect to generate significant commerce and advertising revenues from strategic relationships with certain outside companies. It is our business plan that our websites and the websites of strategic partners will be jointly promoted. However, there can be no assurance that our existing relationships will be maintained through their initial terms or that additional third-party alliances will be available to the Company on acceptable commercial terms, or at all. The inability to enter into new strategic alliances or to maintain any one or more of our existing strategic alliances could result in decreased third-party paid advertising and product and service sales revenue. Even if we are able to maintain our strategic alliances, there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful or that our infrastructure of hardware and software will be sufficient to handle any potential increased traffic or sales volume resulting from these alliances. Changes in government regulation and industry standards, could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business. Laws and regulations that apply to internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. These regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the web and could adversely affect the demand for our advertising solutions or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States Congress has enacted internet legislation regarding children’s privacy, copyrights, sending of commercial email (e.g., the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003), and taxation. The United States Congress has pending legislation regarding spyware (e.g., H.R. 964, “the Spy Act of 2007”). Other laws and regulations have been adopted and may be adopted in the future, and may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, “do not email” lists, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, export of encryption technology, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, taxation, and quality of products and services. This legislation could hinder growth in the use of the web generally and adversely affect our business. Moreover, it could decrease the acceptance of the web as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. The Company does not use any form of spam or spyware and has policies to prohibit abusive internet behavior, including prohibiting the use of spam and spyware by our web publisher partners. Government enforcement actions could result in a decrease demand for our products and services. The Federal Trade Commission and other governmental or regulatory bodies have increasingly focused on issues impacting online marketing practices and consumer protection. The Federal Trade Commission has conducted investigations of competitors and filed law suits against competitors. Some of the investigations and law suits have been settled by consent orders which have imposed fines and changes with regard to how competitors conduct business. The New York Attorney General’s office has sued a major Internet marketer for alleged violations of legal restrictions against false advertising and deceptive business practices related to spyware. In our judgment, the marketing claims we make in advertisements we place to obtain new e-commerce customers are legally permissible. Governmental or regulatory bodies may make a different judgment about the legally permissibility of the advertising we place and the marketing claims we make. We could be subject to regulatory proceedings for past marketing campaigns, or could be required to make changes in our future marketing claims, either of which could adversely affect our revenues. Our business could be subject to regulation by foreign countries, new unforeseen laws and unexpected interpretations of existing laws, resulting in an increase cost of doing business. Due to the global nature of the web, it is possible that, although our transmissions originate in California and Pennsylvania, the governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, the growth and development of the market for internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. The laws governing the internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by the adoption or modification of industry standards, laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or the application of existing laws to the Internet or Internet-based advertising. If the technology that we currently use to deliver online advertisements is restricted, our expenses would increase. Websites typically place small files of non-personalized (or “anonymous”) information, commonly known as cookies, on an Internet user’s hard drive. Cookies generally collect information about users on a non-personalized basis to enable websites to provide users with a more customized experience. Cookie information is passed to the website through an Internet user’s browser software. We currently use cookies to track an Internet user’s movement through our advertiser customer’s websites and to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity on our networks. Most currently available Internet browsers allow Internet users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and some users currently do so. Internet users can also delete cookies from their hard drives at any time. Some Internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, and legislation has been introduced in some jurisdictions to regulate the use of cookie technology. The effectiveness of our technology could be limited by any reduction or limitation in the use of cookies. If the use or effectiveness of cookies were limited, we would have to switch to other technologies to gather demographic and behavioral information. While such technologies currently exist, they are substantially less effective than cookies. We would also have to develop or acquire other technology to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity on our networks. Replacement of cookies could require significant reengineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid losing customers or advertising inventory, and might not be commercially feasible. Our use of cookie technology or any other technologies designed to collect Internet usage information may subject us to litigation or investigations in the future. Any litigation or government action against us could be costly and time consuming, could require us to change our business practices and could divert management’s attention. 15 We could lose customers or advertising inventory if we fail to measure impressions, clicks and actions on advertisements in a manner that is acceptable to our advertisers and web publishers. We earn revenue from advertisers and make payments to web publishers based on the number of impressions, clicks and actions from advertisements delivered on our networks of websites. Advertisers’ and web publishers’ willingness to use our products and services and join our networks will depend on the extent to which they perceive our measurements of impressions, clicks and actions to be accurate and reliable. Advertisers and web publishers often maintain their own technologies and methodologies for counting impressions, clicks and actions, and from time to time we have had to resolve differences between our measurements and theirs. Any significant dispute over the proper measurement of user responses to advertisements could cause us to lose customers or advertising inventory. Competition from other internet advertising companies could result in less revenue and smaller margins. Competition for advertising placements among current and future suppliers of Internet navigational and informational services, high-traffic websites and Internet service providers (“ISPs”), as well as competition with other media for advertising placements, could result in significant price competition, declining margins and reductions in advertising revenue. Google has made available offline public-domain works through its search engine, which creates additional competition for advertisers. In addition, as we continue our efforts to expand the scope of our web services, we may compete with a greater number of web publishers and other media companies across an increasing range of different web services, including in vertical markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition and other areas. If existing or future competitors develop or offer products or services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. We also compete with traditional advertising media, such as direct mail, television, radio, cable, and print, for a share of advertisers’ total advertising budgets. Many current and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, greater access to advertising space on high-traffic websites, and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully. If we fail to compete successfully, we could lose customers or advertising inventory and our revenue and results of operations could decline. We depend on third parties to manufacture all of the products we sell within our e-commerce division, and if we are unable to maintain these manufacturing and product supply relationships or enter into additional or different arrangements, we may fail to meet customer demand and our net sales and profitability may suffer as a result. In addition, shortages of raw ingredients, especially for our Purity mineral cosmetics line, could affect our supply chain and impede current and future sales and net revenues. All of our products are contract manufactured or supplied by third parties. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our other third-party manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products for us at any time and for any reason. In addition, our third-party manufacturers are not restricted from manufacturing our competitors’ products, including mineral-based products. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of suitable products because of the loss of one or more key vendors or manufacturers, our business and results of operations would suffer until we could make alternative supply arrangements. In addition, identifying and selecting alternative vendors would be time-consuming and expensive, and we might experience significant delays in production during this selection process. Our inability to secure adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would harm inventory levels, net sales and gross profit, and ultimately our results of operations. The quality of our e-commerce products depend on quality control of third party manufacturers. For our e-commerce products, third-party manufacturers may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or current or future regulatory requirements, which would require us to find alternative suppliers of our products. Our third-party manufacturers may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or applicable regulatory requirements. If we are forced to rely on products of inferior quality, then our customer satisfaction and brand reputation would likely suffer, which would lead to reduced net sales. Within our e-commerce division, we manufacture and market health and beauty consumer products that are ingestible or applied topically. These products may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. In addition, we are vulnerable to claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. We also may be vulnerable to product liability claims from their use. Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings could result in our recall or discontinuance of sales of our products. Unexpected and undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing new products. In addition, consumers or industry analysts may assert claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects associated with our products or assertions that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be also could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that arise from the testing, manufacture and sale of our beauty products. Plaintiffs in the past have received substantial damage awards from other cosmetics companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. We currently maintain general liability insurance in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our business significantly, particularly if a claim were to result in adverse publicity or damage awards outside or in excess of our insurance policy limits. 16 Risks Related to our Car and Truck Wash Segment We face a criminal investigation regarding the hiring of undocumented workers at our car washes that could result in fines and penalties. On March 13, 2006, the Company learned that the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania is investigating the Company for the alleged hiring of undocumented workers at the Company’s car washes. The Company’s Audit Committee retained independent outside counsel (“Special Counsel”) to conduct an independent investigation of the Company’s hiring practices at the Company’s car washes and other related matters. Special Counsel provided a written summary of findings on April 18, 2006. The investigative findings included, among other things, a finding that the Company’s internal controls for financial reporting at the corporate level are adequate and appropriate, and that there is no financial statement impact implicated by the Company’s hiring practices, except for a potential contingent liability. Beginning on April 21, 2006, Special Counsel began to receive for review some additional and previously requested but unavailable documents and information. On May 18, 2006, Special Counsel issued its Review of Information Supplemental to Internal Investigation which stated that the review of the additional documents and information had not changed the conclusions contained in the April 18, 2006 summary of findings. There is a possibility that the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania may prosecute the Company at the conclusion of its investigation. Violations of law may result in civil, administrative or criminal fines or penalties. Due to the ongoing nature of the criminal investigation, it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of the investigation or the impact of costs of ultimately resolving this matter on our results of operations or financial condition. However, any fees, expenses, fines or penalties which might be incurred by the Company in connection with the hiring of undocumented workers may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made no provision for any future costs associated with the investigations or any future costs associated with the Company’s defense or negotiations with governmental authorities to resolve these outstanding issues. Our car wash work force may expose us to claims that might adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability. We employ a large number of workers who perform manual labor at the car washes we operate. Many of the workers are paid at or slightly above minimum wage. Also, a large percentage of our car wash work force is composed of employees who have been employed by us for relatively short periods of time. This work force is constantly turning over. Our work force may subject us to financial claims in a variety of ways, such as: · claims by customers that employees damaged automobiles in our custody; · claims related to theft by employees; · claims by customers that our employees harassed or physically harmed them; · claims related to the inadvertent hiring of undocumented workers; · claims for payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; and · claims for violations of wage and hour requirements. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may rise to litigation, which could be costly and time consuming to our management team, and could have a negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically feasible rates Our car wash operations face governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and if we fail to or are unable to comply with those regulations, our business may suffer. We are governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, that regulate the operation of our car wash centers and other car care services businesses. Other car care services, such as gasoline and lubrication, use a number of oil derivatives and other regulated hazardous substances. As a result, we are governed by environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things: · transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal, and handling of hazardous materials and wastes; · discharge of storm water; and · underground storage tanks. 17 If uncontrolled hazardous substances are found on any of our properties, including leased property, or if we are otherwise found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, we could be responsible for clean-up costs, property damage, fines, or other penalties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Through our Car and Truck Wash Segment, we face a variety of potential environmental liabilities, including those arising out of improperly disposing waste oil or lubricants at our lube centers, , and leaks from our underground gasoline storage tanks. If we improperly dispose of oil or other hazardous substances, or if our underground gasoline tanks leak, we could be assessed fines by federal or state regulatory authorities and/or be required to remediate the property. Although each case is different, and there can be no assurance as to the cost to remediate an environmental problem, if any, at one of our properties, the costs for remediation of a leaking underground storage tank typically range from $30,000 to $75,000. If our car wash equipment is not maintained, our car washes will not be operable. Many of our car washes have older equipment that requires frequent repair or replacement. Although we undertake to keep our car washing equipment in adequate operating condition, the operating environment in car washes results in frequent mechanical problems. If we fail to properly maintain the equipment in a car wash, that car wash could become inoperable or malfunction resulting in a loss of revenue, damage to vehicles and poorly washed vehicles. If we sell our Car and Truck Wash Segment, our revenues will decrease and our business may suffer. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to locate additional potential buyers for our remaining car washes or that we will be able to consummate any further sales to potential buyers we do locate. In addition if we are able to sell our remaining car washes, our total revenues will decrease and our business will become reliant on the success of our Security Segment and our Digital Marketing Media Segment. Our business faces significant risks as set forth herein and may impact our ability to generate positive operating income or cash flows from operations, may cause our financial results to become more volatile, or may otherwise materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to our Stock Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and your investment may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock, has in the past been, and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the disposition of all or a significant portion of the assets that comprise our Car and Truck Wash Segment, which may or may not be on favorable terms; · technological innovations or new commercial products developed by us or our competitors; · changes in our, or our suppliers’ intellectual property portfolio; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · operating losses by us; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and · our ability to maintain our common stock listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in our revenues and income or in the price of our common stock, thereby reducing the value of an investment in our Company. We could lose our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market if our stock price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, and the loss of the listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would affect its value. Our common stock is listed on Nasdaq Global Market with a closing price of $1.44 at the close of the market on March 25, 2008. If the price of our common stock falls below $1.00 and for 30 consecutive days remains below $1.00, we would be subject to being delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, our stock would be traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market until we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days at which time we would be able to regain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. If our stock fails to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive days during a 180-day grace period on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or a 360-day grace period if compliance with certain core listing standards are demonstrated, we could receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market (together “Nasdaq-Listed Stocks”). Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. If our stock is traded in the OTC market and a market maker sponsors us, we may have the price of our stock electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lack sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the Pink Sheets. The marketability of our stock would be even more limited if our price must be published on the Pink Sheets. 18 Because we are a Delaware corporation, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could affect our stock price. We are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an entity who is an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203 an owner of 15% or more of the outstanding stock of the corporation) for a period of three years following the shareholders becoming an “interested shareholder”, unless approved in a prescribed manner. This provision of Delaware law may affect our ability to merge with, or to engage in other similar activities with, some other companies. This means that we may be a less attractive target to a potential acquirer who otherwise may be willing to pay a premium for our common stock above its market price. If we issue our authorized preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be affected and other entities may be discouraged from seeking to acquire control of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be designated and issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. It is not possible to state the precise effect of preferred stock upon the rights of the holders of our common stock until the board of directors determines the respective preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the holders of one or more series or classes of the preferred stock. However, such effect might include: (i) reduction of the amount otherwise available for payment of dividends on common stock, to the extent dividends are payable on any issued shares of preferred stock, and restrictions on dividends on common stock if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears, (ii) dilution of the voting power of the common stock to the extent that the preferred stock has voting rights, and (iii) the holders of common stock not being entitled to share in our assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference granted to the holders of our preferred stock. The “blank check” preferred stock may be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an unsolicited attempt by another entity to acquire control of us and may therefore have an anti-takeover effect. Issuances of authorized preferred stock can be implemented, and have been implemented by some companies in recent years, with voting or conversion privileges intended to make an acquisition of a company more difficult or costly. Such an issuance, or the perceived threat of such an issuance, could discourage or limit the stockholders’ participation in certain types of transactions that might be proposed (such as a tender offer), whether or not such transactions were favored by the majority of the stockholders, and could enhance the ability of officers and directors to retain their positions. Our policy of not paying cash dividends on our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock. We have not paid in the past, and do not expect to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to reinvest in our business any cash otherwise available for dividends. Our decision not to pay cash dividends may negatively affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At March 25, 2008, there were no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports. ITEM 