ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSDescribed below are risks, which are categorized as “Risk Factors Relating to Our Business,” “Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment” and “Risk Factors Relating to Our Employees,” that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements” that precedes Part I of this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Risk Factors Relating to Our BusinessPotential costs related to the environmental cleanup of Portland Harbor may be material to our financial position and liquidityIn December 2000, we were notified by the EPA under CERCLA that we are one of the potentially responsible parties (“PRP”) that owns or operates or formerly owned or operated sites which are part of or adjacent to the Portland Harbor Superfund site (the “Site”). The precise nature and extent of any cleanup of the Site, the parties to be involved, the process to be followed for any cleanup and the allocation of the costs for any cleanup among responsible parties have not yet been determined, but the process of identifying additional PRPs and beginning allocation of costs is underway. A group of PRPs referred to as the “Lower Willamette Group” (“LWG”) is conducting a remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”) to identify and characterize the contamination at the Site and develop alternative approaches to remediation of the contamination. On March 30, 2012, the LWG submitted to the EPA and made available on its website a draft feasibility study (“draft FS”) for the Site based on approximately ten years of work and $100 million in costs classified by the LWG as investigation-related. The draft FS identifies ten possible remedial alternatives which range in estimated cost from approximately $170 million to $250 million (net present value) for the least costly alternative to approximately $1.08 billion to $1.76 billion (net present value) for the most costly and estimates a range of two to 28 years to implement the remedial work, depending on the selected alternative. The draft FS does not determine who is responsible for remediation costs, define the precise cleanup boundaries or select remedies. The draft FS is being reviewed and is likely to be subject to revisions, which could be significant, prior to its approval by the EPA. While the draft FS is an important step in the EPA’s development of a proposed plan for addressing the Site, a final decision on the nature and extent of the required 12 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.remediation will occur only after the EPA has prepared a proposed plan for public review and issued a record of decision (“ROD”). Currently available information indicates that the EPA does not expect to issue its final ROD selecting a remedy for the Site until at least 2015. Responsibility for implementing and funding the EPA’s selected remedy will be determined in a separate allocation process, which is currently underway. Separately, the natural resource damages trustees for the Site are conducting a process to determine the amount of natural resource damages at the Site and identify the persons potentially liable for such damages. Given the size of the Site, the costs to date of the RI/FS and the nature of the conditions identified to date, the total cost of the investigations, remediation and natural resource damages claims are likely to be substantial. Because there has not been a determination of the total cost of the investigations, the remediation that will be required, the amount of natural resource damages or how the costs of the ongoing investigations and any remedy and natural resource damages will be allocated among the PRPs, we believe it is not possible to reasonably estimate the amount or range of costs which we are likely or reasonably possible to incur in connection with the Site, although such costs could be material to our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Significant cash outflows in the future related to the Site could reduce the amount of our borrowing capacity that could otherwise be used for investment in capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and share repurchases. Any material liabilities incurred in the future related to the Site could result in our failure to maintain compliance with certain covenants in our debt agreements. See “Contingencies – Environmental” in Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.We operate in industries that are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial conditionDemand for most of our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the industries in which our products are used including global steel manufacturing and residential construction in the U.S. are difficult to predict. The cyclical nature of our operations tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, supply/demand imbalances and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Economic downturns or a prolonged period of slow growth in the U.S. and foreign markets or any of the industries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While we believe that drivers such as infrastructure growth in developing economies and demand for environmentally sustainable raw materials will continue to drive long-term global demand for recycled metal, we are unable to predict the duration of the current uncertain economic conditions that are contributing to a softer demand environment for our products and constrained supply of raw materials. Changes in the availability or price of raw materials and end-of-life vehicles could reduce our sales Our businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third party suppliers. Although our cross-divisional synergies allow us to be our own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to scrap metal for SMB, we rely on other suppliers for most of our raw material needs. Industry supply conditions generally involve risks, including the possibility of shortages of raw materials, increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. We procure our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metal to us. In periods of declining scrap metal prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap metal to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their metal collection activities. If a substantial number of suppliers ceases selling scrap metal to us, we will be unable to recycle metal at desired levels, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A slowdown of industrial production in the U.S. may also reduce the supply of industrial grades of metal to the metals recycling industry, resulting in less recyclable metal available to process and market. Increased competition for domestic scrap metal, including as a result of investments by competitors that expand the scrap recycling capacity in the U.S., may also reduce the supply of scrap metal available to us. Failure to obtain a steady supply of scrap material could both adversely impact our ability to meet sales commitments and reduce our operating margins. Failure to obtain an adequate supply of end-of-life vehicles could adversely impact our ability to attract customers and charge admission fees and reduce our parts sales. Failure to obtain raw materials, such as alloys used in the steel-making process, could adversely impact our ability to make steel to the specifications of our customers.Significant decreases in scrap metal prices may adversely impact our operating resultsThe timing and magnitude of the cycles in the industries in which we operate are difficult to predict and are influenced by different economic conditions in the domestic market, where we typically acquire our raw materials, and foreign markets, where we typically sell the majority of our products. Purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal and selling prices for scrap metal are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing scrap metal selling prices through adjustments to our metal purchase prices, our ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our metal purchase prices to offset a sharp reduction in scrap metal sales prices, which may adversely impact our operating income and cash flows. In addition, a rapid decrease in selling prices may compress our operating margins due to the impact of average inventory cost, which causes cost of goods sold recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations to decrease at a slower rate than metal purchase prices and net selling prices. Lower export demand for scrap metal relative to demand in the domestic market may also compress operating margins due to higher purchase prices resulting from stronger domestic competition for supply without commensurately higher export selling prices. 13 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequencesWe have completed a number of recent acquisitions and expect to continue making acquisitions of complementary businesses to enable us to enhance our customer base and grow our revenues. Execution of our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including:•Difficulty integrating the acquired businesses’ personnel and operations;•Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business;•Difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies;•Unexpected costs;•Inaccurate assessment of or undisclosed liabilities;•Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; and•Difficulty managing the growth of a larger company.If we do not successfully execute our acquisition strategy and the acquired businesses do not perform as projected, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Goodwill impairment charges may adversely affect our operating resultsWe have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet generated in connection with our acquisition business growth strategy. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination measured at fair value. We test the goodwill balances allocated to our reporting units for impairment on an annual basis and if events occur or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of one or more of our reporting units may be below its carrying amount. A decline in the quoted market price of our stock could denote a triggering event indicating that goodwill may be impaired. When testing goodwill for impairment, we determine fair value using an income approach based on the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing a market-based weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”). Given that market prices of our reporting units are not readily available, we make various estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of the reporting units, including estimating revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, tax rates, terminal growth rates, discount rate and synergistic benefits available to market participants. We corroborate the reporting units’ valuation using a market approach based on earnings multiple data and a reconciliation between our market capitalization and our estimate of the aggregate fair value of the reporting units, including consideration of a control premium. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in the estimates and assumptions described above. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we identified the combination of the continued challenging market conditions, the constrained supply of raw materials, the Company’s recent financial performance and the lack of recovery of our market capitalization as a triggering event requiring an interim impairment test of goodwill allocated to our reporting units. As a result of the test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $321 million at the MRB reporting unit. Additional declines in or a lack of recovery in market conditions from current levels, the Company’s financial performance trends, including the pace and extent of operating margin and volume recovery, a further decline in our share price from current levels, or an increase in the market-based WACC, among other factors, could significantly impact our impairment analysis and may result in further goodwill impairment charges that, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of this report.Impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating resultsLong-lived assets are subject to an impairment assessment when certain triggering events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows of the operations related to the asset, an impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The results of these tests for potential impairment may be adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions, the Company’s financial performance trends, or an increase in interest rates, among other factors. If as a result of the impairment test we determine that the fair value of any of our long-lived assets is less than its carrying amount, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our restructuring initiatives may not achieve the expected cost reductionsWe have been implementing various restructuring initiatives designed to extract greater synergies from our acquisitions and technology investments, achieve further integration between our Metals Recycling Business and Auto Parts Business, realign our organization to support future growth and decrease operating expenses by streamlining functions and reducing organizational layers. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. We have incurred in fiscal 2012 and 2013, and will continue to incur in the near term, restructuring charges as a result of these activities. Failure to achieve the expected cost reductions related to these restructuring initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.Uncertain economic conditions may cause customers to be unable to fulfill their contractual obligationsWe enter into export ferrous sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantity, shipping terms and other contractual terms. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies, the customer typically opens a letter of credit to satisfy its obligation under the contract prior to our shipment of the cargo. Although not considered normal course of business, during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until the customer successfully opens the letter of credit. Customers may not be able to fulfill their contractual obligations or open letters of credit in times of illiquid market conditions. As of August 31, 2013 and 2012, 49% and 28%, respectively, of our trade accounts receivable balance was covered by letters of credit.Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may reduce the demand for our productsA significant portion of MRB’s revenues is generated from sales to foreign customers, which are denominated in U.S. dollars, including customers located in Asia, Africa and Europe. A strengthening U.S. dollar would make our products more expensive for non-U.S. customers, which could negatively impact export sales. A strengthening U.S. dollar would also make imported metal products less expensive, resulting in an increase in imports of steel products into the U.S. As a result, our finished steel products, which are made in the U.S., may become more expensive for our U.S. customers relative to imported steel products.We are exposed to translation and transaction risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Hedging instruments may not be effective in mitigating such risks and may expose us to losses or limit our potential gainsOur operations in Canada expose us to translation and transaction risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of the operating costs and the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations into our functional currency for inclusion in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange transaction risk. As part of our risk management program, we may use financial instruments, including foreign currency exchange forward contracts. While intended to reduce the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, these instruments may not be effective in reducing all risks related to such fluctuations and may limit our potential gains or expose us to losses. Although we do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes or speculation, and our management believes all such instruments are entered into as hedges of underlying physical transactions, these instruments are dependent on timely performance by our counterparties. Should our counterparties to such instruments or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from the transactions covered by these instruments.Potential limitations on our ability to access capital resources may restrict our ability to operate or execute our growth strategyOur operations are capital intensive. Our business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. While we expect that our cash requirements, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service, dividends, share repurchases and any contingencies, will be financed by internally generated funds or from borrowings under our unsecured committed bank credit facility, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions could require financing from external sources.Although we believe we have adequate access to contractually committed borrowings, we could be adversely affected if our banks were unable to honor their contractual commitments or ceased lending. Failure to access our credit facilities could restrict our ability to fund operations, make capital expenditures or execute acquisitions.The agreement governing our bank credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our business and contains financial covenants Our unsecured committed bank credit agreement contains certain restrictions on our business, including our ability to create liens, raise additional capital, enter into transactions with affiliates, acquire and dispose of businesses, guarantee debt, and consolidate or merge. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business or execute our growth strategy and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our bank credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial and other covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or financial covenants could result in an event of default under the bank credit agreement, and permit our lenders to cease lending to us and declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. This could require us to refinance our bank credit agreement, which we may not be able to do at terms acceptable to us, or at all. Consolidation in the steel industry may reduce demand for our productsThere has been a significant amount of consolidation in the steel industry in recent years that has included steel mills acquiring steel fabricators to ensure demand for their products. If any of SMB’s significant remaining customers were to be acquired by 15 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.competing steel mills, this could reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices, reducing our revenues, or to reduce production, which could increase our unit costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Increases in imports of foreign steel into the U.S. may reduce domestic demand for our productsEconomic expansion in China and other foreign countries has affected the availability, and increased the price volatility, of recycled metal and steel products. Expansions and contractions in these economies can significantly affect the price of commodities used and sold by our business, as well as the price of finished steel products. Additionally, in a number of foreign countries, such as China, steel producers are generally government-owned and may therefore make production decisions based on political or other factors that do not reflect market conditions. Disruptions in foreign markets from excess steel production may encourage importers to target the U.S. with excess capacity at aggressive prices, and existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although trade regulations restrict the importation of certain products, if foreign steel production significantly exceeds consumption in those countries, imports of steel products into the U.S. could increase, resulting in lower volumes and selling prices for SMB’s steel products.Failure to realize expected benefits from investments in processing and manufacturing technology may impact our operating results and cash flowsWe make significant investments in processing and manufacturing technology improvements aimed at increasing the efficiency and capabilities of our businesses and to maximize our economies of scale. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits and generate adequate returns on such capital improvement projects may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Reliance on third party shipping companies may restrict our ability to ship our productsMRB and SMB generally rely on third parties to handle and transport raw materials to their production facilities and products to customers. Despite our practice of utilizing a diversified group of suppliers of transportation, due to factors beyond our control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in transportation infrastructure, third party shipping companies may be forced to increase their charges for transportation services or otherwise reduce the availability of their vehicles or ships, and thus we may not be able to transport our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may harm our reputation.Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdownsOur recycling and manufacturing processes depend on critical pieces of equipment, including shredders, nonferrous sorting technology, furnaces and rolling mills, which may be out of service occasionally for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. Our facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. We have insurance to cover certain of the risks associated with equipment damage and resulting business interruption, but there are certain events that would not be covered by insurance and there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms. Interruptions in our processing and production capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product liability claims may adversely impact our operating resultsWe could inadvertently acquire radioactive scrap metal that could potentially end up in mixed scrap metal shipped to consumers worldwide. Although we have invested in radiation detection equipment in the majority of our locations, including the facilities from which we ship directly to customers, failure to detect radioactive scrap metal remains a possibility. Even though we maintain insurance to address the risk of this failure in detection, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage would be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms. In addition, if we fail to meet contractual requirements for a product, we may be subject to product warranty costs and claims. These costs and claims could both have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation.Our deferred tax assets may become impaired in the futureThe assessment of recoverability of our deferred tax assets is based on an evaluation of existing positive and negative evidence as to whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized. If negative evidence outweighs positive evidence, a valuation allowance is required. Impairment of deferred tax assets may result from significant negative industry or economic trends, a decrease in earnings performance and projections of future taxable income, adverse changes in laws or regulations and a variety of other factors. In fiscal 2013, we recorded a valuation allowance on substantially all of the deferred taxes generated at one of our foreign subsidiaries. Impairment of deferred tax assets could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory EnvironmentEnvironmental regulations may cause us to incur significant compliance costsCompliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We are subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to, among other matters:•Waste disposal;•Air emissions;•Waste water and storm water management and treatment;•Soil and groundwater contamination remediation;•Global climate change;•Discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; and•Employee health and safety.We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. Violation of or failure to obtain permits or comply with these laws or regulations could result in our business being fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or becoming subject to litigation by private parties. Our operations use, handle and generate hazardous substances. In addition, previous operations by others at facilities that we currently or formerly owned, operated or otherwise used may have caused contamination from hazardous substances. As a result, we are exposed to possible claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of waterways and soil or groundwater contamination. These laws can impose liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances even if the owner or operator was neither aware of nor responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. We have, in the past, been found not to be in compliance with certain of these laws and regulations, and have incurred liabilities, expenditures, fines and penalties associated with such violations. Future environmental compliance costs may increase because of new laws and regulations, changing interpretations and stricter enforcement of current regulations by regulatory authorities, uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, the future costs of pollution control technology and issues related to global climate change. Further, the level of activity by regulatory authorities and non-governmental organizations has increased in recent years. Environmental compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the risk factor “Potential costs related to the environmental cleanup of Portland Harbor may be material to our financial position and liquidity” in this Item 1A.Climate change may adversely impact our facilities and our ongoing operationsThe potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include rising sea levels at our deep water port facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. As many of our recycling facilities are located near deep water ports, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to receive scrap metal, process the scrap metal through our mega-shredders and ship products to our customers. Periods of extended adverse weather conditions may inhibit the supply of scrap metal to MRB and SMB and end-of-life vehicles to APB, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or cause us to fail to meet our sales commitments. In addition, sustained periods of increased temperature levels in the summer in areas where our APB operations are located could result in less customer traffic, thus resulting in reduced admissions and parts sales.Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our licenses and permits, thus restricting our ability to operateWe conduct certain of our operations subject to licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including auto parts facilities. In addition, from time to time, both the U.S. and foreign governments impose regulations and restrictions on trade in the markets in which we operate. In some countries, governments can require us to apply for certificates or registration before allowing shipment of recycled metal to customers in those countries. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold. Failure to obtain these approvals could cause us to limit or discontinue operations in these locations or prevent us from developing or acquiring new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with existing and new greenhouse gas emission regulations may adversely impact our operating resultsIncreased regulation regarding climate change and GHG emissions could impose significant costs on our business and our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with regulations concerning and limitations imposed on climate change and GHG emissions. The potential costs of allowances, offsets or credits that may be part of “cap and trade” programs or similar future regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability (and that of our customers and suppliers) to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to 17 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the metals recycling and steel manufacturing industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our products. See “Business - Environmental Matters” in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further detail.Risk Factors Relating to Our EmployeesReliance on employees subject to collective bargaining may restrict our ability to operateApproximately 23% of our full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements, including substantially all of the manufacturing employees at our SMB steel manufacturing facility. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on acceptable terms. Any failure to reach an agreement with one or more of our unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The underfunded status of our multiemployer pension plans may cause us to increase our contributions to the plansAs discussed in Note 16 – Employee Benefits in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have been notified that the Steelworkers Western Independent Shops Pension Plan (“WISPP”), a multiemployer plan benefiting union employees of SMB, has an accumulated funding deficiency (i.e., a failure to satisfy the minimum funding requirements) and is in a certified Red Zone Status as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as of the plan’s year-end of September 30, 2012. Because the WISPP is in Red Zone Status, it is required to adopt a rehabilitation plan, which may involve contribution increases, benefit reductions or a combination of the two. At this time, we are not required to make surcharge payments as we are already signatory to an agreement that requires annual six percent contribution increases. Because we have no current intention of withdrawing from the WISPP, we have not recognized a withdrawal liability in our consolidated financial statements. However, if such a liability were triggered, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, liquidity and cash flows. Our contributions to the WISPP could also increase as a result of a diminished contribution base due to the insolvency or withdrawal of other employers who currently contribute to it, the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability or other funding deficiencies, as we would need to fund the retirement obligations of these employers.In 2004, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) approved a seven-year extension of the period over which the WISPP may amortize unfunded liabilities, conditioned upon maintenance of certain minimum funding levels. Based on the actuarial valuation for the WISPP as of October 1, 2012, the funded percentage (based on the ratio of the market value of assets to the accumulated benefits liability (present value of accrued benefits) using the valuation method prescribed by the IRS) was 72.3%, which is below the targeted funding ratio specified in the agreement with the IRS. As a result, the WISPP is in the process of seeking relief from the specified funding requirement from the IRS. If the WISPP cannot obtain relief, revocation by the IRS of the amortization extension retroactively to the 2002 plan year could occur and result in a material liability for the Company’s share of the resulting funding deficiency, the extent of which currently cannot be estimated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 18 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2013Table of Contents SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.