Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business segments are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending, shifts in fashion and industry and demographic conditions. We are subject to seasonal variations and face numerous business risk factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a risk that consumer sentiment may decline due to economic and/or geo-political factors, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. We rely heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and can change rapidly. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. Our inability to effectively determine these changes may lead to higher seasonal inventory levels and a future need to increase markdowns to liquidate our inventory. Compared to our retail segments, our wholesale business is more sensitive to changes in fashion trends because of longer lead times in the manufacture and sale of its apparel. Our fashion decisions constitute a material risk and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in expanding our business and opening new retail stores. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis. Our operating complexity will increase as our store base grows, and we may face challenges in managing our future growth. Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operating capabilities, and expand, train and manage our employee base. We may be unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified personnel or successfully manage our growth. Our expansion prospects also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things, competition, the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements, the availability of suitable sites for new store locations on acceptable lease terms, and the availability of inventory. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, nor can there be any assurance that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Existing and increased competition in the specialty retail, direct-to-consumer and wholesale apparel businesses may reduce our net revenues, profits and market share. The specialty retail, direct-to-consumer and the wholesale apparel businesses are each highly competitive. Our retail stores compete on the basis of, among other things, the location of our stores, the breadth, quality, style, and availability of merchandise, the level of customer service offered and merchandise price. Our Anthropologie and Free People stores also face competition from small boutiques that offer an individualized shopping experience similar to the one we strive to provide to our target customers. In addition, some of our suppliers offer products directly to consumers and certain of our competitors. Our Free People wholesale business competes with numerous wholesale companies based 10 Table of Contents on the quality, fashion and price of our wholesale product offerings, many of whose products have wider distribution than ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition as well as financial, marketing and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives, including our Chairman, President and co-founder, Richard A. Hayne, and our Chief Executive Officer, Glen T. Senk. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Hayne, Mr. Senk or any of our other key personnel. In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future could impair our ability to increase revenue and could otherwise harm our business. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution centers are closed. We operate four distribution facilities worldwide to support our retail and wholesale business segments in the United States, Western Europe and Canada, and for fulfillment of catalog and web site orders. The merchandise purchased for our United States and Canadian retail operation is shipped directly to our distribution centers in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania and Reno, Nevada while merchandise purchased for our direct-to-consumer and wholesale operations is shipped directly to our distribution center in Edgefield County, South Carolina. The merchandise purchased for our Western Europe retail and direct-to-consumer operations is shipped to Essex, England. If any of our distribution centers were to close for any reason the other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to re-open or replace the center. We rely significantly on foreign sources of production. We receive a substantial portion of our apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us, In addition, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. 11 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate from period to period. Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a more significant portion of operating income typically realized during the five-month period from August 1 to December 31 of each year (the back-to-school and holiday periods). Any decrease in sales or margins during this period, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months preceding this period, could have a more material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the back-to-school and holiday selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis. In order to more effectively protect them from infringement and to defend against claims of infringement, the marks are owned by separate subsidiaries who are responsible for maintaining and managing existing and future marks, thereby increasing their value to the company. We are not aware of any valid claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. War, acts of terrorism, or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either are threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores may be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries, see “We rely significantly on foreign sources of production” on page 11. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores, as well as fulfilling catalog and web site orders. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in introducing additional store concepts. We may, from time to time, seek to develop and introduce new concepts or brands in addition to our existing Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands. Our ability to succeed in these new concepts could require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, 12 Table of Contents challenges relating to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow these or any other new concepts to a point where they will become profitable, or generate positive cash flow. If we cannot successfully develop and grow these new concepts, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. In fiscal 2008 we announced our fourth brand, Terrain, which we expect will open its first location in early fiscal 2009. This location was acquired through an immaterial acquisition in fiscal 2008. We do not anticipate the results of Terrain having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may develop new store concepts through acquisitions of which we may not be successful in integrating those acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the possibility that current operating and financial systems and controls may be inadequate to deal with our growth and the potential loss of key employees. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire with our existing operations. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to: • successfully merge corporate cultures and operational and financial systems; • realize cost reduction synergies; and • as necessary, retain key management members and technical personnel of acquired companies. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on any company that we may acquire, or have recently acquired. Also, there may be additional costs relating to acquisitions including, but not limited to, possible purchase price adjustments. Any of our rights to indemnification from sellers to us, even if obtained, may not be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may effect the liquidity of these investments and could cause an impairment charge. A minority portion of our marketable securities are invested in “A” or better rated Auction Rate Securities (“ARS ”) that represent interests in municipal and student loan related collateralized debt obligations, all of which are guaranteed by either government agencies and/or insured by private insurance agencies. Historically, investments in ARS have been highly liquid, however, if an auction for the securities we own fails, the investments may not be readily convertible. Liquidity for ARS is typically provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually 7, 28, 35 or 90 days. The principal associated with failed auctions will not be available until a successful auction occurs, the bond is called by the issuer, a buyer is found from outside the auction process or the debt obligation reaches its maturity. We have determined that there are no current impairment charges related to these failures based on review of the projected cash flows, credit rating and assessment of the credit quality of the underlying security. We have the ability to hold the investments until their maturity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no outstanding comments with the staff of the SEC. 13 Table of Contents 