Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business segments are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending, shifts in fashion and industry and demographic conditions. We are subject to seasonal variations and face numerous business risk factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a risk that consumer sentiment may decline due to economic and/or geo-political factors, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending remains uncertain and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, the European political and economic crisis and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The current economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. The economic conditions may also affect the number of specialty retail businesses and their ability to purchase merchandise from our Wholesale segment. It is difficult to predict how long the current uncertain economic, capital and credit market conditions will continue and what impact they will have on our business. We rely heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and can change rapidly. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. Our inability to effectively determine these changes may lead to higher seasonal inventory levels and a future need to increase markdowns to liquidate our inventory. Compared to our Retail segment, our Wholesale segment is more sensitive to changes in fashion trends because of longer lead times in the manufacture and sale of its apparel. Our fashion decisions constitute a material risk and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in expanding our business, opening new retail stores or extending our existing share leases. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis. We also must be able to effectively extend our existing store leases. Our operating complexity will increase as our store base grows, and we may face challenges in managing our future growth. Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operating capabilities, and expand, train and manage our employee base. We may be unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified personnel or successfully manage our growth. Our expansion prospects also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things, 11 Table of Contents competition, the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements, the availability of suitable sites for new store locations on acceptable lease terms, and the availability of inventory. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, nor can there be any assurance that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. We may not be successful expanding our business internationally. Our current growth strategy also includes plans to continue to open new stores internationally over the next several years. We have limited prior experience operating internationally, where we face established competitors. International stores have different operational characteristics, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and legal requirements. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ internationally, and as a result, sales of our merchandise may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. Additionally, our ability to conduct business internationally may be adversely impacted by political and economic risks, as well as the global economy. Any differences that we encounter as we expand internationally, may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to expand our international operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We are required to use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure compliance with these laws. Violations of these laws could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. Existing and increased competition in the specialty retail, direct-to-consumer and wholesale apparel businesses may reduce our net revenues, profits and market share. The specialty retail segment and the wholesale apparel businesses are each highly competitive. Our retail stores compete on the basis of, among other things, the location of our stores, the breadth, quality, style, and availability of merchandise, the level of customer service offered and merchandise price. Our Anthropologie, Free People and BHLDN stores also face competition from small boutiques that offer an individualized shopping experience similar to the one we strive to provide to our target customers. Additionally, the internet and other new technologies facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping in our Retail segment. We strive to offer a multichannel shopping experience for our direct-to-consumer customers and use social media as a way to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experiences. Multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. In addition, some of our suppliers offer products directly to consumers and certain of our competitors. Our Free People wholesale business competes with numerous wholesale companies based on the quality, fashion and price of our wholesale product offerings, many of whose products have wider distribution than ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition as well as financial, marketing and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Due to difficult economic conditions our competitors may force 12 Table of Contents a markdown or promotional sales environment which could hurt our ability to achieve our historical profit margins. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives, including our President and co-founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Hayne. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. In addition, if our senior executives do not fully integrate within the structure of our management team and core business, we may be adversely affected. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Hayne, or any of our other key personnel. In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future could impair our ability to increase revenue and could otherwise harm our business. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution centers are closed. We operate five distribution facilities worldwide to support our retail and wholesale business segments in the United States, Western Europe and Canada, and for fulfillment of catalog and website orders around the world. The merchandise purchased for our United States and Canadian retail store operations is shipped directly to our distribution centers in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania and Reno, Nevada. Merchandise purchased for our direct-to-consumer operations is shipped directly to our fulfillment centers in Trenton, South Carolina and Reno, Nevada. Merchandise purchased for our wholesale operations is shipped directly to our fulfillment center in Trenton, South Carolina. The merchandise purchased for our Western Europe retail and direct-to-consumer operations is shipped to Rushden, England. If any of our distribution centers were to close for any reason, the other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores and customers during the time it takes for us to re-open or replace the center. We rely significantly on international sources of production. We receive a substantial portion of our apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, acts of terrorism and natural disasters could adversely affect our business. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States due to significant labor issues, such as strikes at any of our ports in the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the 13 Table of Contents production or export of merchandise from those countries. Moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors may not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, therefore, increases in the petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals. Some of these conflict minerals are commonly used in many products, and may be used in some of the products we offer. These requirements will generally require companies to investigate, disclose and report annually whether or not conflict minerals, if used in the manufacture of the products offered by the company, originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of certain of the products we offer. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period. Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a more significant portion of operating income typically realized during the five-month period from August 1 to December 31 of each year (the back-to-school and holiday periods). Any decrease in sales or margins during this period, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months preceding this period, could have a more material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations than in other periods. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the back-to-school and holiday selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis. We are not aware of any valid claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and intellectual property of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property of ours and we 14 Table of Contents may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. War, acts of terrorism, or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and/or otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either are threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores or on our websites may be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries, see “We rely significantly on international sources of production” on page 13. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores, as well as fulfilling catalog and website orders. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in introducing additional store concepts. We may, from time to time, seek to develop and introduce new concepts or brands in addition to our established brands, Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People. Our ability to succeed in Terrain, BHLDN, and other new concepts could require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges relating to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow these or any other new concepts to a point where they will become profitable, or generate positive cash flow. If we cannot successfully develop and grow these new concepts, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. We may develop new store concepts through acquisitions and we may not be successful in integrating those acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the possibility that current operating and financial systems and controls may be inadequate to deal with our growth and the potential loss of key employees. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire with our existing operations. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to: • successfully merge corporate cultures and operational and financial systems; • realize cost reduction synergies; and • as necessary, retain key management members and technical personnel of acquired companies. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on any company that we may acquire, or have recently 15 Table of Contents acquired. Also, there may be additional costs relating to acquisitions including, but not limited to, possible purchase price adjustments. Any of our rights to indemnification from sellers to us, even if obtained, may not be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We rely on information technology systems and a material disruption or failure of such systems or technologies could adversely affect our business. Our operations, in particular our direct-to-consumer sales, are subject to numerous risks, including reliance on third-party computer hardware/software, rapid technological change, diversion of sales from our stores, liability for online content, violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy, credit card fraud, risks related to the failure of the information technology systems that operate our websites, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. If our information systems or other technologies are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Although we have not experienced any interruptions or shutdowns of our systems for any material length of time for the reasons described above, such disruptions could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant, affect our sales and profitability. During the course of business, we obtain and transmit confidential customer information through our information technology systems. While, to the best of our knowledge, we have not experienced any material misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information as a result of a security breach or cyber attack, such a security breach or cyber attack could adversely affect our business and operations, including damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees and investors and exposing us to risks of litigation and liability. While we believe we are diligent in selecting vendors, systems and procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems, we recognize that there are inherent risks and we cannot assure that any future interruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosures will not occur. Manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. We have a compliance program that is monitored on a regular basis by our buying offices. Our production facilities are either certified as in compliance with our program, or areas of improvement are identified and corrective follow-up action is taken. All manufacturing facilities are required to follow applicable national labor laws, as well as international compliance standards regarding workplace safety, such as standards that require clean and safe working environments, clearly marked exits and paid overtime. We believe in protecting the safety and working rights of the people who produce the goods sold in our stores and through our wholesale business, while recognizing and respecting cultural and legal differences found throughout the world. We require our outside vendors to register through an online website and agree that they and their suppliers will abide by certain standards and conditions of employment. Our results can be adversely affected by market disruptions. Market disruptions due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards, terrorist activities, financial crises, political crises or other major events or the prospect of these events can 16 Table of Contents affect consumer spending and confidence levels and adversely affect our results or prospects in affected markets. The receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to fully offset our losses. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. We are subject to numerous regulations and legal matters that could adversely affect our business. We are subject to customs, child labor, tax, employment, privacy, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and distribution centers. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. If these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, legal actions may be filed against us from time to time, including class actions. These actions may assert commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, data privacy, securities or other claims. We may also be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common shares, or our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no outstanding comments with the staff of the SEC. 