ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below are risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements” that precedes Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of or that the Company currently deems immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Company’s Businesses The Company operates in industries that are cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. MRB operates in industries that are cyclical in nature. The timing and magnitude of these industry cycles are difficult to predict. Purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal and selling prices for scrap and recycled metal are volatile and beyond the Company’s control. While the Company attempts to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices through adjustments to its metal purchase prices, the Company’s ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. A significant reduction in selling prices for recycled metal may adversely impact both the Company’s operating income and its ability to recover purchase costs from end customers. A decline in market prices for recycled metal between the date of the sales order and shipment of the product may impact the customer’s ability to obtain letters of credit to cover the full sales amount. A decline in selling prices for scrap metal or a customer’s failure to meet their contractual obligations may also result in a net realizable value adjustment to the average cost of inventory to reflect the lower of cost or market. Additionally, changing prices could potentially impact the volume of scrap metal available to the Company, the volume of processed metal sold by the Company and inventory levels. The cyclical nature of the Company’s businesses tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. For example, during recessions, the automobile and construction industries typically experience cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This can lead to significant decreases in demand and pricing for the Company’s recycled metal and finished steel products. During uncertain economic conditions customers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. The Company enters into export ferrous processing sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing a price, quantities, other contractual elements and shipping terms. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies by the Company, the customer typically opens a letter of credit to satisfy its obligation under the contract prior to shipment of the cargo by the Company. Although not considered normal course of business, during uncertain economic conditions, the Company is at risk on consummating the transaction until successful completion of the letter of credit. As a result, the customer may not be able to fulfill its obligation under the contract in times of illiquid market conditions. MRB is affected by seasonal fluctuations. MRB generally experiences seasonal fluctuations in business in the winter months when inclement weather conditions can impact the level of raw material purchases as a result of reduced levels of industrial production or interruptions in transportation from railroads or barges, which may reduce the volume of material processed at MRB’s facilities. Protracted periods of inclement weather could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The principal markets served by the Company are highly competitive. Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including product differentiation, geographic location, contract terms, business practices, customer service and cost reductions through improved efficiencies. Consolidation within the different industries in which the Company operates has increased the size of some of the Company’s competitors, some of which have used their financial resources to achieve competitive advantages by investing in capital improvements to improve efficiencies, achieve economies of scale and lower operating costs. An increase in Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2008 / 13 Table of Contents competition or the Company’s inability to remain competitive could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could adversely affect the Company’s ability to price its products competitively. A significant portion of MRB’s revenues and operating income earned is generated from sales to foreign customers, including customers located in Asian and Mediterranean countries. A strong U.S. dollar would make the Company’s products more expensive for non-U.S. customers, which could negatively impact export sales. A strong U.S. dollar also would make imported metal products less expensive, resulting in an increase in imports of scrap metal, scrap substitutes and steel products into the U.S. As a result, the Company’s products, which are made in the U.S., may become more expensive relative to imported raw metal and steel products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to deliver products to customers and the cost of shipping and handling may be affected by circumstances over which the Company has no control. MRB and SMB often rely on third parties to handle and transport their raw materials to their production facilities and finished products to end users. Due to factors beyond the Company’s control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in transportation infrastructure, the Company may not be able to transport its products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, increases in freight costs could negatively impact profitability. In addition, the Company’s failure to deliver products in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition and harm its reputation. The Company’s businesses depend on adequate supplies of raw materials. The Company’s businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third-party suppliers. Although the Company’s vertical integration allows it to be its own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to SMB, the Company does rely on other suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions generally, which involves risks, including the possibility of increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. For example, purchase prices for autobodies and scrap metal are highly cyclical in nature and subject to U.S. and global economic conditions. As a result, the Company might not be able to obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials in a timely or cost-effective manner. Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. The Company’s recycling and manufacturing processes depend upon critical pieces of equipment, including shredders and furnaces, which may be out of service occasionally for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. The Company’s facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. As a result, the Company may experience interruptions in its processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to negotiate future labor contracts on acceptable terms, which could result in strikes or other labor actions. Approximately 28% of the Company’s full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, the Company may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on terms acceptable to the Company. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of the Company’s unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions. Any such labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The cost and availability of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The Company’s facilities are significant consumers of electricity and natural gas. The Company relies on third parties for its supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of its products. The prices for and availability of 14 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2008 Table of Contents electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions can be affected by weather conditions, as well as political and economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Disruptions in the supply of the Company’s energy resources could impair its ability to manufacture its products for its customers and could result in increases in the Company’s energy costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions. The Company has completed a number of recent acquisitions and expects to continue making acquisitions of, and strategic alliances with, complementary businesses and investments in technologies to enable the Company to add products and services that enhance the Company’s customer base and related markets. Execution of this strategy involves a number of risks, including: • Inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; • Difficulty integrating the acquired businesses’ personnel and operations; • Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business; and • Difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If the Company loses its key management personnel, it may not be able to successfully manage its business or achieve its objectives. The Company’s future success depends in large part on the leadership and performance of its executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If the Company were to lose the services of several of its executive officers or key employees at the operating level, it might not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel. As a result, the Company may not be able to successfully manage its business or achieve its business objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Some of the Company’s operations present significant risk of injury or death. The industrial activities conducted at the Company’s facilities present significant risk of serious injury or death to the Company’s employees, customers or other visitors to the Company’s operations, notwithstanding the Company’s safety precautions, including its material compliance with federal, state and local employee health and safety regulations. While the Company has in place policies and procedures to minimize such risks, it may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for an injury or death, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on information technology in critical areas of the Company’s operations, and a disruption relating to such technology could harm the Company. The Company uses information technology systems in various aspects of the Company’s operations, including, but not limited to, the management of inventories, processing costs and customer sales, some of which is provided by third parties. If the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with the Company, or if the Company decides to switch providers or to implement its own systems, it may suffer disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing its own systems. The Company could be subject to product liability claims. The Company has some exposure from radioactive scrap that could inadvertently end up in mixed scrap shipped to consumers worldwide. The Company has invested in radiation detection equipment. However, the possibility still exists of potential failure in detection. The successful assertion of any such claim related to radiation contamination in the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2008 / 15 Table of Contents If Chinese steel production substantially exceeds local demand, it may result in the export of significant excess quantities of steel products. Chinese economic expansion has affected the availability and increased the price volatility of recycled metal and steel products. Expansions and contractions in the Chinese economy can significantly affect the price of commodities used and sold by the Company, as well as the price of finished steel products. If expanding Chinese steel production significantly exceeds local consumption, exports of steel products from China could increase, resulting in lower volumes and selling prices for SMB’s steel products. Any resulting disruptions in foreign markets may encourage importers to target the U.S. with excess capacity at aggressive prices and existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Increases in fuel cost may decrease demand for the Company’s auto parts. In times of rapid increases in crude oil and gasoline prices, motorists may reduce the amount of travel and mileage driven. As the economy slows, consumer confidence weakens and fuel costs become a more significant factor in buying decisions. Over time, reduced driving leads to fewer accidents and consequently lower demand for replacement parts, which may impact APB’s parts sales. The Company is subject to environmental regulations and environmental risks which could result in significant environmental compliance costs and environmental liability. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in the Company’s business. The Company is subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to, among other matters: • Waste disposal; • Air emissions; • Waste water and storm water management and treatment; • Soil and groundwater contamination remediation; • The discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; and • Employee health and safety. The Company is also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. Violation or failure to obtain permits or comply with these laws or regulations, could result in the Company being fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. The Company’s operations use and generate hazardous substances. In addition, previous operations by others at facilities that are currently or were formerly owned or operated by the Company or otherwise used by the Company may have caused contamination from hazardous substances. As a result, the Company is exposed to possible claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of waterways and soil or groundwater contamination. These laws can impose liability for the clean-up of hazardous substances, even if the owner or operator was neither aware of nor responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, future environmental compliance costs may increase because of new laws and regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, the future costs of pollution control technology and issues related to global climate change. Environmental compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew the Company’s licenses and permits. The Company must receive licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments to conduct certain of its operations or to develop or acquire new facilities. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including auto parts facilities. In addition, from time to time, both the U.S. and foreign governments impose regulations and restrictions on trade in the markets in which the Company operates. In some countries, governments can require the Company to apply for certificates or registration before allowing 16 / Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Form 10-K 2008 Table of Contents shipment of recycled metal to customers in those countries. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that the Company will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits it currently holds, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s properties are located in areas that may be subject to potential natural or other disasters. Some of our operating facilities are located in areas that may be subject to natural disasters. In addition, many of our properties, including our deep water export facilities, are located in coastal regions and therefore could be affected by any future increases in sea levels, earthquakes, or the frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, whether such increases are caused by global climate changes or other factors. The inability to operate certain of the Company’s facilities and the inability to ship from the Company’s ports could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emission limitations. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant U.S. and international regulatory and legislative initiatives to limit greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In the past few years the U.S. Congress has considered various bills that would regulate GHG emissions. While these bills have not yet received adequate Congressional support, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the relatively near future. Increased regulation regarding GHG emissions could impose significant costs on the Company, including increased energy, environmental and other costs in order to comply with the limitations imposed on GHG emissions. In addition, depending upon whether similar limitations are imposed globally, the legislation could negatively impact the Company’s ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, the Company cannot predict the effect on its financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the metal recycling and steel manufacturing industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved issues with respect to any SEC staff written comments that were received 180 days or more before the end of fiscal 2008 that relate to the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 