ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Many of our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services may be impacted by the current deterioration in the economy and credit markets. As a result of the recession, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, and other challenges currently affecting the domestic economy, our customers have reduced their spending on our products and services. Many of our customers in our electronic surveillance equipment business finance their purchase activities through cash flow from operations or the incurrence of debt. Additionally, many of our customers in our personal defense products division, our e-commerce division and our car wash operations depend on disposable personal income. The combination of a reduction of disposable personal income, a reduction in cash flow of businesses and a possible lack of availability of financing to businesses and individuals has resulted in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. During 2009, our revenues from continuing operations declined $9.8 million, or 25.8%, from our revenues from continuing operations in 2008. To the extent our customers continue to reduce their spending in 2010, this reduction in spending could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If the economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. We have reported net losses in the past. If we continue to report net losses, the price of our common stock may decline, or we could go out of business. We reported net losses and negative cash flow from operating activity from continuing operations in each of the five years ended December 31, 2009. Although a portion of the reported losses in past years related to non-cash impairment charges of intangible assets and non-cash stock-based compensation expense, we may continue to report net losses and negative cash flow in the future. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $10.95 million. Additionally, accounting pronouncements require annual fair value based impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets identified with indefinite useful lives. As a result, we may be required to record additional impairments in the future, which could materially reduce our earnings and equity. If we continue to report net losses and negative cash flows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. 10 Our liquidity could be adversely affected if we do not prevail in the litigation initiated by Louis D. Paolino, Jr. The Board of Directors of the Company terminated Louis D. Paolino, Jr. as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on May 20, 2008. On June 9, 2008, the Company received a Demand for Arbitration from Mr. Paolino (the “Arbitration Demand”) filed with the American Arbitration Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (the “Arbitration Proceeding”). The primary allegations of the Arbitration Demand are: (i) Mr. Paolino alleges that he was terminated by the Company wrongfully and is owed a severance payment of $3,918,120 due to the termination; (ii) Mr. Paolino is claiming that the Company owes him $322,606 because the Company did not issue him a sufficient number of stock options in August 2007, under provisions of the Employment Contract between Mr. Paolino and the Company dated August 21, 2006; (iii) Mr. Paolino is claiming damages against the Company in excess of $6,000,000, allegedly caused by the Company having defamed Mr. Paolino’s professional reputation and character in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2008 filed by the Company and in the press release the Company issued on May 21, 2008, relating to Mr. Paolino’s termination; and (iv) Mr. Paolino is also seeking punitive damages, attorney’s fees and costs in an unspecified amount. The Company filed a counterclaim in the Arbitration Proceeding demanding damages from Mr. Paolino of $1,000,000. On June 25, 2008, Mr. Paolino also filed a claim with the United States Department of Labor claiming that his termination as Chief Executive Officer of the Company was an “unlawful discharge” in violation of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1514A, a provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “DOL Complaint”). In the DOL Complaint, Mr. Paolino demands the same damages he requested in the Arbitration Demand and additionally requests reinstatement as Chief Executive Officer with back pay from the date of termination. Upon the motion of Mr. Paolino, the proceedings relating to the DOL Complaint have been stayed pending the conclusion of the Arbitration Proceeding. The Company is disputing the allegations made by Mr. Paolino and is defending itself in the Arbitration Proceeding and against the DOL Complaint. A ruling in the Arbitration Proceeding is expected on or about May 31, 2010. It is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation with any certainty. If the Company does not prevail and significant damages are awarded to Mr. Paolino, such award will severely diminish the Company’s liquidity. If we are unable to finance our business, our stock price could decline and we could go out of business. We have been funding operating losses by divesting of our car washes through third party sales. Our capital requirements include working capital for daily operations, including purchasing inventory and equipment. Although we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.4 million as of December 31, 2009, we have a history of net losses and in some years we have ended our fiscal year with a negative working capital balance. Our operating losses for 2008 and 2009 were $10.9 million and $9.0 million, respectively. The current economic climate has made it more difficult to sell our remaining car washes as it is more difficult for buyers to finance the purchase price. Additionally, as of December 31, 2009 we only have eight remaining car washes which we estimate will generate proceeds, net of related mortgages, in the range of approximately $4.0 million to $4.5 million. To the extent that we lack cash to meet our future capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through bank borrowings and additional equity and/or debt financings, which may result in significant increases in leverage and interest expense and/or substantial dilution of our outstanding equity. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may need to substantially reduce the scale of our operations and curtail our business plan. We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets and thus above average profit margins will likely attract additional competitors. Our competitors may develop products and services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than, our products and services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than ours. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to offer superior products and services. Failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures could seriously harm our business. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, mistakes and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Any failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our executive officers, our business may suffer. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers and do not replace them with experienced personnel, that loss of talent and experience will make our business plan, which is dependent on active growth and management, more difficult to implement and could adversely impact our operations. 11 If our insurance is inadequate, we could face significant losses. We maintain various insurance coverages for our assets and operations. These coverages include property coverage including business interruption protection for each location. We maintain commercial general liability coverage in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage up to $25 million. We also maintain workers’ compensation policies in every state in which we operate. Since July 2002, as a result of increasing costs of the Company’s insurance program, including auto, general liability, and certain of our workers’ compensation coverage, we have been insured as a participant in a captive insurance program with other unrelated businesses. Workers’ compensation coverage for non-car wash employees was transferred to an occurrence-based policy in March 2009. The Company maintains excess coverage through occurrence-based policies. With respect to our auto, general liability, and certain workers’ compensation policies, we are required to set aside an actuarially determined amount of cash in a restricted “loss fund” account for the payment of claims under the policies. We expect to fund these accounts annually as required by the insurance company. Should funds deposited exceed claims incurred and paid, unused deposited funds are returned to us with interest after the fifth anniversary of the policy year-end. The captive insurance program is further secured by a letter of credit from Mace in the amount of $566,684 at December 31, 2009. The Company records a monthly expense for losses up to the reinsurance limit per claim based on the Company’s tracking of claims and the insurance company’s reporting of amounts paid on claims plus an estimate of reserves for possible future losses on reported claims and claims incurred but not reported. There can be no assurance that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event a claim is made against us, or that we will be able to maintain in place such insurance at reasonable prices. An uninsured or under insured claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to our Security Segment We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Although we have not been the subject of any such actions, third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. We provide the specifications for most of our security products and contract with independent suppliers to engineer and manufacture those products and deliver them to us. Certain of these products contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. In addition, if an infringement by us were found to exist, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Some of our suppliers have agreed to indemnify us against any such infringement claim, but any infringement claim, even if not meritorious and/or covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources, which would adversely effect our operations and financial results. If our Mace brand name falls into common usage, we could lose the exclusive right to the brand name. The Mace registered name and trademark is important to our security business and defense spray business. If we do not defend the Mace name or allow it to fall into common usage, our security segment business could be adversely affected. If our original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) fail to adequately supply our products, our security products sales may suffer. Reliance upon OEMs, as well as industry supply conditions generally involves several additional risks, including the possibility of defective products (which can adversely affect our reputation for reliability), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our distribution schedules), and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). We have some single-sourced manufacturer relationships, either because alternative sources are not readily or economically available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If these sources are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in a timely and reliable manner, we could experience temporary distribution interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies adversely affecting our results of operations. Even where alternative OEMs are available, qualification of the alternative manufacturers and establishment of reliable suppliers could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. Many states have and other states have stated an intention to enact laws requiring manufacturers of certain electronic products to pay annual registration fees and have recycling plans in place for electronic products sold at retail such as televisions, computers, and monitors (“electronic recycling laws”). If the electronic recycling laws are applied to us, the sale of monitors by us may become prohibitively expensive. Our Security Segment sells monitors as part of the video security surveillance packages we market. The video security surveillance packages consist of cameras, digital video recorders and video monitors. We have taken the position with many states that our monitors are security monitors and are not subject to the laws they have enacted which generally refer to computer monitors. If we have to pay registration fees and have recycling plans for the monitors we sell, it may be prohibitively expensive to offer monitors as part of our security surveillance packages. The inability to offer monitors at a competitive price will place us at a competitive disadvantage. 12 The businesses that manufacture our electronic surveillance products are located in foreign countries, making it difficult to recover damages if the manufacturers fail to meet their obligations. Our electronic surveillance products and many non-aerosol personal protection products are manufactured on an OEM basis. Most of the OEM suppliers we deal with are located in Asian countries and are paid a significant portion of an order in advance of the shipment of the product. If any of the OEM suppliers defaulted on their agreements with the Company, it would be difficult for the Company to obtain legal recourse because of the suppliers’ assets being located in foreign countries. If people are injured by our consumer safety products, we could be held liable and face damage awards. We face claims of injury allegedly resulting from our defense sprays, which we market as less-than-lethal. For example, we are aware of allegations that defense sprays used by law enforcement personnel resulted in deaths of prisoners and of suspects in custody. In addition to use or misuse by law enforcement agencies, the general public may pursue legal action against us based on injuries alleged to have been caused by our products. We may also face claims by purchasers of our electronic surveillance systems if they fail to operate properly during the commission of a crime. As the use of defense sprays and electronic surveillance systems by the public increases, we could be subject to additional product liability claims. We currently have a $25,000 deductible on our consumer safety products insurance policy, meaning that all such lawsuits, even unsuccessful ones and ones covered by insurance, cost the Company money. Furthermore, if our insurance coverage is exceeded, we will have to pay the excess liability directly. Our product liability insurance provides coverage of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage of up to $25 million. However, if we are required to directly pay a claim in excess of our coverage, our income will be significantly reduced, and in the event of a large claim, we could go out of business. If governmental regulations regarding defense sprays change or are applied differently, our business could suffer. The distribution, sale, ownership and use of consumer defense sprays are legal in some form in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Restrictions on the manufacture or use of consumer defense sprays may be enacted, which would severely restrict the market for our products or increase our costs of doing business. Our defense sprays use hazardous materials which if not properly handled would result in our being liable for damages under environmental laws. Our consumer defense spray manufacturing operation currently incorporates hazardous materials, the use and emission of which are regulated by various state and federal environmental protection agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency. If we fail to comply with any environmental requirements, these changes or failures may expose us to significant liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Environmental Protection Agency conducted a site investigation at our Bennington, Vermont facility in January, 2008 and found the facility in need of remediation. See Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies. Our monitoring business relies on third party providers for the software systems and communication connections we use to monitor alarms and video signals; any failure or interruption in products or services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business. Our central station utilizes third party software and third party phone and internet connections to monitor alarm and video signals. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business. Our monitoring business can lose customers due to customers' cancelling land line telecommunications services. Certain elements of our operating model rely on our customers' selection and continued use of traditional, land-line telecommunications services, which we use to communicate with our monitoring operations. In order to continue to service existing customers who cancel their land-line telecommunications services and to service new customers who do not subscribe to land-line telecommunications services, some customers must upgrade to alternative and often more expensive wireless or internet based technologies. Higher costs may reduce the market for new customers of alarm monitoring services, and the trend away from traditional land-lines to alternatives may mean more existing customers will cancel service with us. Continued shifts in customers' preferences regarding telecommunications services could continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow and customer attrition. Our monitoring business faces continued competition and pricing pressure from other companies in the industry and, if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We compete with a number of major domestic security monitoring companies, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. We believe that this competition is a factor in our customer attrition, limits our ability to raise prices, and, in some cases, requires that we lower prices. Some of our monitoring competitors, either alone or in conjunction with their respective parent corporate groups, are larger than we are and have greater financial resources, sales, marketing or operational capabilities than we do. In addition, opportunities to take market share using innovative products, services and sales approaches may attract new entrants to the field. We may not be able to compete successfully with the offerings and sales tactics of other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenue and operating results. 13 Loss of customer accounts by our monitoring business could materially adversely affect our operations. Our contracts can be terminated on 60 day notice by our customers. We could experience the loss of accounts as a result of, among other factors: · relocation of customers; · customers' inability or unwillingness to pay our charges; · adverse financial and economic conditions, the impact of which may be particularly acute among our small business customers; · the customers' perceptions of value; · competition from other alarm service companies; and · the purchase of our dealers by third parties who choose to monitor elsewhere. Loss of a large dealer customer could result in a significant reduction in recurring monthly revenue. Net losses of customer accounts could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased adoption of "false alarm" ordinances by local governments may adversely affect our monitoring business. An increasing number of local governmental authorities have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws, regulations or policies aimed at reducing the perceived costs to municipalities of responding to false alarm signals. Such measures could include: · requiring permits for the installation and operation of individual alarm systems and the revocation of such permits following a specified number of false alarms; · imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms; · requiring further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond; and · subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect our future business and operations. For example, concern over false alarms in communities adopting these ordinances could cause a decrease in the timeliness of police response to alarm activations and thereby decrease the propensity of consumers to purchase or maintain alarm monitoring services. Our costs to service affected accounts could increase. Due to a concentration of monitoring customers in California, we are susceptible to environmental incidents that may negatively impact our results of operations. Approximately 95% of the monitoring businesses recurring monthly revenue (“RMR”) at December 31, 2009 was derived from customers located in California. Additionally, our facilities are located in California. A major earthquake, or other environmental disaster in California, could disrupt our ability to serve customers or render customers uninterested in continuing to retain us to provide alarm monitoring services. We could face liability for our failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. The nature of the monitoring services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other agreements pursuant to which we sell our products and services contain provisions limiting our liability to customers and third parties. In the event of litigation with respect to such matters, however, these limitations may not be enforced. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. Future government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our monitoring operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. In addition, new regulations may be enacted that could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our Underwriter Laboratories listing could negatively impact our competitive position. Our alarm monitoring center is UL listed. To obtain and maintain a UL listing, an alarm monitoring center must be located in a building meeting UL's structural requirements, have back-up and uninterruptible power supplies, have secure telephone lines and maintain redundant computer systems. UL conducts periodic reviews of alarm monitoring centers to ensure compliance with its regulations. Non-compliance could result in a suspension of our UL listing. The loss of our UL listing could negatively impact our competitive position. 14 Risks Related to our Digital Media Marketing Segment Our e-commerce brands are not well known. Our e-commerce brands of Vioderm (anti-wrinkle products), TrimDay (diet supplement), Purity by Mineral Science (mineral based facial makeup), Eternal Minerals (Dead Sea spa products), Extreme- BriteWhite (a teeth whitening product), Knockout (an acne product), Biocol (a natural colon cleanser), Goji Berry Now (a concentrated antioxidant dietary supplement), and PetVitamins (a line of FDA-approved supplements for pets) are relatively new. We have not yet been able to develop widespread awareness of our e-commerce brands. Lack of brand awareness could harm the success of our marketing campaigns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We have a concentration of our e-commerce business in limited products. E-Commerce revenues are currently generated from six product lines. The concentration of our business in limited products creates the risk of adverse financial impact if we are unable to continue to sell these products or unable to develop additional products. We believe that we can mitigate the financial impact of any decrease in sales by the development of new products, however we cannot predict the timing of or success of new products. We compete with many established e-commerce companies that have been in business longer than us. Current and potential e-commerce competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining online registrants and converting registrants into customers and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We need to attract and retain a large number of e-commerce customers who purchase our products on a recurring basis. Our e-commerce model is driven by the need to attract a large number of customers to our continuity program and to maintain customers for an extended period of time. We have fixed costs in obtaining an initial customer which can be defrayed only by a customer making further purchases. For our business to be profitable, we must convert a certain percentage of our initial customers to customers that purchase our products on a recurring monthly basis for a period of time. To do so, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and to introduce new high-quality products and services. There is no assurance we will have the resources, financial or otherwise, required to enhance or develop products and services. Further, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to improve our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose existing members and may fail to attract new customers. Failure to enhance or develop products and services or to respond to the needs of our customers in an effective or timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our customer acquisition costs may increase significantly. The customer acquisition cost of our business depends in part upon our ability to obtain placement on promotional Internet sites at a reasonable cost. We currently pay for the placement of our products on third party promotional Internet sites by paying the site operators a fixed fee for each customer we obtain from the site (“CPA fee”). The CPA fee varies over time, depending upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. One of the factors that determine the amount of the CPA fee is the attractiveness of our products and how many consumers our products draw to a promotional website. Historically, we have used online advertising on promotional websites as the sole means of marketing our products. In general, the costs of online advertising have increased substantially and are expected to continue to increase as long as the demand for online advertising remains robust. We may not be able to pass these costs on in the form of higher product prices. Continuing increases in advertising costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 15 Our online marketing business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our online marketing business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services and products. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. Failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on our merchant and banking relationships, as well as strategic relationships with third parties, who provide us with payment processing solutions. Our e-commerce products are sold by us on the Internet and are paid for by customers through credit cards. From time to time, VISA and MasterCard increase the fees that they charge processors. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. Our revenues from merchant account processing are dependent upon our continued merchant relationships which are highly sensitive and can be canceled if customer charge-backs escalate and generate concern that the company has not held back sufficient funds in reserve accounts to cover these charge-backs as well as result in significant charge-back fines. Cancellation by our merchant providers would most likely result in the loss of new customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We depend on credit card processing for a majority of our e-commerce business, including but not limited to Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Significant changes to the merchant operating regulations, merchant rules and guidelines, card acceptance methods and/or card authorization methods could significantly impact our revenues. Additionally, our e-commerce membership programs are accepted under a negative option billing term (customers are charged monthly until they cancel), and change in regulation of negative option billing could significantly impact our revenue. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment. Our customers use credit cards to pay for our e-commerce products and for the products we market for third parties. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate Internet use could damage our Digital Media Marketing business. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Changes in government regulation and industry standards could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business. Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. These regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the web and could adversely affect the demand for our advertising solutions or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States Congress has enacted Internet legislation regarding children’s privacy, copyrights, sending of commercial email (e.g., the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003), and taxation. Other laws and regulations have been adopted and may be adopted in the future, and may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, “do not email” lists, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, export of encryption technology, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, taxation, and quality of products and services. This legislation could hinder growth in the use of the web generally and adversely affect our business. Moreover, it could decrease the acceptance of the web as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. The Company does not use any form of spam or spyware. 16 Government enforcement actions could result in decreased demand for our products and services. The Federal Trade Commission and other governmental or regulatory bodies have increasingly focused on issues impacting online marketing practices and consumer protection. The Federal Trade Commission has conducted investigations of competitors and filed law suits against competitors. Some of the investigations and law suits have been settled by consent orders which have imposed fines and required changes with regard to how competitors conduct business. The New York Attorney General’s office has sued a major Internet marketer for alleged violations of legal restrictions against false advertising and deceptive business practices related to spyware. In our judgment, the marketing claims we make in advertisements we place to obtain new e-commerce customers are legally permissible. Governmental or regulatory authorities may challenge the legality of the advertising we place and the marketing claims we make. We could be subject to regulatory proceedings for past marketing campaigns, or could be required to make changes in our future marketing claims, either of which could adversely affect our revenues. Our business could be subject to regulation by foreign countries, new unforeseen laws and unexpected interpretations of existing laws, resulting in an increased cost of doing business. Due to the global nature of the web, it is possible that, although our transmissions originate in California and Pennsylvania, the governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, the growth and development of the market for Internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. The laws governing the internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by the adoption or modification of industry standards, laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or the application of existing laws to the Internet or Internet-based advertising. We depend on third parties to manufacture all of the products we sell within our e-commerce division, and if we are unable to maintain these manufacturing and product supply relationships or enter into additional or different arrangements, we may fail to meet customer demand and our net sales and profitability may suffer as a result. In addition, shortages of raw ingredients, especially for our Purity mineral cosmetics line, could affect our supply chain and impede current and future sales and net revenues. All of our products are contract manufactured or supplied by third parties. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our other third-party manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products for us at any time and for any reason. In addition, our third-party manufacturers are not restricted from manufacturing our competitors’ products, including mineral-based products. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of suitable products because of the loss of one or more key vendors or manufacturers, our business and results of operations would suffer until we could make alternative supply arrangements. In addition, identifying and selecting alternative vendors would be time-consuming and expensive, and we might experience significant delays in production during this selection process. Our inability to secure adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would harm inventory levels, net sales and gross profit, and ultimately our results of operations. The quality of our e-commerce products depend on quality control of third party manufacturers. For our e-commerce products, third-party manufacturers may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or current or future regulatory requirements, which would require us to find alternative suppliers of our products. Our third-party manufacturers may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or applicable regulatory requirements. If we are forced to rely on products of inferior quality, then our customer satisfaction and brand reputation would likely suffer, which would lead to reduced net sales. Within our e-commerce division, we manufacture and market health and beauty consumer products that are ingestible or applied topically. These products may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. In addition, we are vulnerable to claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. We also may be vulnerable to product liability claims from their use. Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings could result in our recall or discontinuance of sales of our products. Unexpected and undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing new products. In addition, consumers or industry analysts may assert claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects associated with our products or assertions that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be also could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that arise from the testing, manufacture and sale of our beauty products. Plaintiffs in the past have received substantial damage awards from other cosmetics companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. We currently maintain general liability insurance in the amount of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate with an umbrella policy which provides coverage of up to $25 million. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our business significantly, particularly if a claim were to result in adverse publicity or damage awards outside or in excess of our insurance policy limits. 17 Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and an investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, volatile. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors; · announcements regarding the disposition of all or a significant portion of the assets that comprise our Car Wash Segment, which may or may not be on favorable terms; · technological innovations or new commercial products developed by us or our competitors; · changes in our or our suppliers’ intellectual property portfolio; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · operating losses by us; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and · our ability to maintain our common stock listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in our revenues and income or in the price of our common stock, thereby reducing the value of an investment in our Company. We could lose our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market if the closing bid price of our stock does not return to above $1.00 for ten consecutive days during the 180 day period ending September 20, 2010. The loss of the listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would affect its value. Our common stock is listed on NASDAQ Global Market with a closing bid price of $0.92 at the close of the market March 18, 2010. On March 22, 2010, the Company received a letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department that the Company was not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because, for the period February 4, 2010 through March 19, 2010, the closing bid price of our common stock was less than $1.00 per share. The non-compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450a)(1) makes the Company’s common stock subject to being delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market. In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), the Company has a grace period of 180 calendar days expiring on September 20, 2010 to regain compliance by having a closing bid price for a minimum of ten consecutive business days at $1.00 per share or higher. Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(F), the NASDAQ Listing Qualification Department may, in its discretion, require the Company to maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally not more than 20 consecutive business days. Upon delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market (together “NASDAQ-listed Stocks”). Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than NASDAQ-listed Stocks. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would be otherwise. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than NASDAQ-listed Stocks. If our stock is traded in the OTC market and a market maker sponsors us, we may have the price of our stock electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lack sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the Pink Sheets. The marketability of our stock would be even more limited if our price must be published on the Pink Sheets. Because we are a Delaware corporation, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could affect our stock price. We are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an entity who is an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203, an owner of 15% or more of the outstanding stock of the corporation) for a period of three years following the stockholder becoming an “interested stockholder,” unless approved in a prescribed manner. This provision of Delaware law may affect our ability to merge with, or to engage in other similar activities with, some other companies. This means that we may be a less attractive target to a potential acquirer who otherwise may be willing to pay a premium for our common stock above its market price. 18 If we issue our authorized preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be affected and other entities may be discouraged from seeking to acquire control of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be designated and issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. It is not possible to state the precise effect of preferred stock upon the rights of the holders of our common stock until the board of directors determines the respective preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the holders of one or more series or classes of the preferred stock. However, such effect might include: (i) reduction of the amount otherwise available for payment of dividends on common stock, to the extent dividends are payable on any issued shares of preferred stock, and restrictions on dividends on common stock if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears, (ii) dilution of the voting power of the common stock to the extent that the preferred stock has voting rights, and (iii) the holders of common stock not being entitled to share in our assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference granted to the holders of our preferred stock. The “blank check” preferred stock may be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an unsolicited attempt by another entity to acquire control of us and may therefore have an anti-takeover effect. Issuances of authorized preferred stock can be implemented, and have been implemented by some companies in recent years, with voting or conversion privileges intended to make an acquisition of a company more difficult or costly. Such an issuance, or the perceived threat of such an issuance, could discourage or limit the stockholders’ participation in certain types of transactions that might be proposed (such as a tender offer), whether or not such transactions were favored by the majority of the stockholders, and could enhance the ability of officers and directors to retain their positions. Our policy of not paying cash dividends on our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock. We have not paid in the past, and do not expect to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to reinvest in our business any cash otherwise available for dividends. Our decision not to pay cash dividends may negatively affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At March 19, 2010, there were no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports. ITEM 