ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence and employee relations. The risks described below, along with risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may impair our business operations and our liquidity in an adverse way. Current financial and economic conditions may have a continued adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial position. Current financial and economic conditions continue to be challenging and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could further reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Poor economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive industry and service businesses, each of which is a significant source of our advertising revenue. There can be no assurance that we will not experience any material adverse effect on our business as a result of the recent economic conditions or that the actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve or other governmental and regulatory bodies for the reported purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. Additionally, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers or our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. Potential consequences of the current financial and economic conditions include: · the financial condition of those companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automobile manufacturers and dealers which may file for bankruptcy protection or face severe cash flow issues, may result in a significant decline in our advertising revenue; · our ability to pursue the acquisition of attractive television and non-television assets may be limited if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional capital on favorable terms, if at all; · our ability to pursue the divestiture of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited; · the possibility that our business partners, such as our counterparties to our outsourcing and news share arrangements, could be negatively impacted and our ability to maintain these business relationships could also be impaired; · our ability to refinance our existing debt; · our ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired; and · one or more of the lenders under our Bank Credit Agreement could refuse to fund its commitment to us or could fail and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. 22 Table of Contents Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond our control. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our securities. We rely on sales of advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results depend on the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less advertising revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on: · the levels of automobile advertising, which historically have represented about one quarter of our advertising revenue; however for the year ended December 31, 2009 automobile advertising represented 15.2% of our net time sales; · the health of the economy in the area where our television stations are located and in the nation as a whole; · the popularity of our programming and that of our competition; · changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; · the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, MVPDs and internet and broadband content providers serving in the same markets; and · other factors that may be beyond our control. The relative lack of political advertising in 2009 and the continued deterioration of the automotive industry and the decline in national and most local economic conditions resulted in a decrease in our advertising revenue for 2009 as compared to 2008, which had an adverse impact on our business financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our advertising revenue will not be volatile in the future or that such volatility will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have a high level of debt, totaling $1,366.3 million at December 31, 2009, compared to the book value of shareholders’ equity (deficit) of $202.2 million on the same date. Our relatively high level of debt poses the following risks, particularly in periods of declining revenues: · we may use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our outstanding debt, especially during general negative economic and market industry conditions; · the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes may be limited because a significant portion of cash flow may be used to pay principal and interest on outstanding debt; · our lenders may not be as willing to lend additional amounts to us for future working capital needs, additional acquisitions or other purposes; · if our cash flow were inadequate to make interest and principal payments, we might have to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell one or more of our stations to reduce debt service obligations; 23 Table of Contents · our ability to finance working capital needs and general corporate purposes for the public and private markets, as well as the associated cost of funding is dependent, in part, on our credit ratings. As of the filing date of this Form 10-K, our credit ratings, as assigned by Moody’s Investor Services (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) were: Moody’s S&P Corporate Credit B2 B Senior Subordinated Notes Caa1 CCC+ 4.875% and 3.0% Notes Caa1(a) CCC+(b) 9.25% Notes B2 B- Bank Credit Agreement Ba2 BB- (a) The 3.0% Notes have not been rated by Moody’s; this rating reflects the rating for the 4.875% Notes. (b) The 4.875% Notes have not been rated by S&P; this rating reflects the rating for the 3.0% Notes. The credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. · we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than less leveraged competitors and thus, less able to withstand competitive pressures; and · as of December 31, 2009, approximately $330.0 million principal amount of our recourse debt bears interest at variable rates and is unhedged; however, the debt is essentially fixed until LIBOR exceeds 2.0% due to the debt’s LIBOR floor provision. We also may borrow additional funds at variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates, or the loss of the benefits of any interest rate hedging arrangements, would increase our interest expense on variable rate debt, which would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service outstanding debt. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our securities to demand a higher annual yield, which could adversely affect the market price of each’s respective outstanding debt securities, including our notes and debentures. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and other obligations is dependent on our ability to generate cash in the future. Any of the foregoing risks could reduce our ability to generate cash available for debt repayment, capital improvements or investment or to respond to events that would enhance profitability. Commitments we have made to our lenders limit our ability to take actions that could increase the value of our securities and business or may require us to take actions that decrease the value of our securities and business. Our existing financing agreements prevent us from taking certain actions and require us to meet certain tests. These restrictions and tests may limit our ability to repay unsecured debt or decrease the value of our securities and business. These restrictions and tests include, but are not limited to, the following: · restrictions on additional debt; · restrictions on our ability to pledge our assets as security for indebtedness; · restrictions on payment of dividends, the repurchase of stock and other payments relating to capital stock; · restrictions on some sales of certain assets and the use of proceeds from asset sales; · restrictions on mergers and other acquisitions, satisfaction of conditions for acquisitions and a limit on the total amount of acquisitions without the consent of bank lenders; · restrictions on the lines of business we and our subsidiaries may operate; and · financial ratio and condition tests including the ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted (adjusted EBITDA) to certain of our interest expense, the ratio of first lien indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA and the ratio of Sinclair Television Group, Inc. (STG) total indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA. 24 Table of Contents Future financing arrangements may contain additional restrictions and tests. All of these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies, prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our securities or may require actions that decrease the value of our securities. In addition, we may fail to meet the tests and thereby default or cross-default on one or more of our obligations (particularly if the economy continues to weaken and thereby reduce our advertising revenues). If we default on our obligations, creditors could require immediate payment of the obligations or foreclose on collateral. If this happens, we could be forced to sell assets or take other actions that could significantly reduce the value of our securities and business and we may not have sufficient assets or funds to pay our debt obligations. A failure to meet covenants under our debt instruments could result in a default under such debt instruments, acceleration of amounts due under our debt and loss of assets securing our loans. Certain of debt is cross-defaulted with our other debt, which means that a default under the debt of one of our debt instruments may cause a default with our outstanding debt under certain of our indentures or the Bank Credit Agreement. If we breach certain of our debt covenants, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately take possession of the property securing such debt. In addition, if any other lender declared its loan due and payable as a result of a default, the holders of our outstanding notes, along with the lenders under the Bank Credit Agreement, might be able to require us to pay those debts immediately. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet our obligations. Cunningham, one of our LMA partners, has incurred past significant financial and economic challenges and there can be no assurance that Cunningham will not again experience significant financial and economic decline. Any insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding relating to Cunningham would cause a default and potential acceleration under the Bank Credit Agreement and could, potentially, result in Cunningham’s rejection of our six LMAs with Cunningham, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Cunningham operates in the same industry as us and hence faces similar financial and economic pressures. Because the six LMAs with Cunningham are material to our financial condition and results of operations, we are affected by the financial condition of Cunningham or any of its subsidiaries. Any insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding relating to Cunningham or any of its subsidiaries would materially negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be able to incur significantly more debt in the future, which could increase the foregoing risks related to our indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, we had $135.9 million available (subject to certain borrowing conditions) for additional borrowings under the Bank Credit Agreement, all of which was available under our current borrowing capacity. Under the terms of the debt instruments to which we are subject, and provided we meet certain financial and other covenants, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional senior debt and secured debt. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described in the risk factors in this report relating to having substantial debt could intensify. Recent global financial conditions could adversely affect the availability of new financing and result in higher interest rates. Recent global financial conditions have been characterized by increased market volatility. Several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be capitalized by governmental authorities. Access to public financing has been negatively impacted by, among other things, both the rapid decline in value of sub-prime mortgages and the liquidity crisis affecting the asset-backed commercial paper market. These factors may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future on favorable terms. Continued market disruptions could also result in volatile, or higher, interest rates, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Of our $1,366.3 million of debt outstanding at December 31, 2009, approximately $330.0 million recourse debt bears interest at variable rates and is unhedged. Accordingly, increases in interest rates above the LIBOR floor provision, or the loss of the benefits of any interest rate hedging agreement, would increase our interest expense on variable rate debt, which would adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations. 25 Table of Contents We face significant and credible risks of competition in the broadcast industry, in addition to lower demand for advertising due to the recent economic slowdown, which may adversely affect our financial performance. Due to the recent economic slowdown, overall expenditures by advertisers and demand for advertising in general are lower as compared to previous years. In addition to reduced demand, we face significant competition for advertising revenue from a variety of media sources including other broadcast television stations, MVPDs, radio stations, internet and broadband content providers serving in the same markets. This reduction in demand and increase in competition will likely adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We must purchase television programming in advance based on expectations about future revenues. Actual revenues may be lower than our expectations. If this happens, we could experience losses that may make our securities less valuable. One of our most significant costs is television programming. Our ability to generate revenue to cover this cost may affect the value of our securities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we generally purchase programming content from others rather than producing such content ourselves, we have limited control over the costs of the programming. We usually must purchase programming several years in advance and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming. We may replace programs that are doing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred or before we have fully amortized the costs. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. These factors are exacerbated during a weak advertising market. Additionally, our business is subject to the popularity of the programs provided by the networks with which we have network affiliation agreements or which provide us programming. We may lose a large amount of programming if a network terminates its affiliation with us, which could increase our costs and/or reduce revenue. Our 58 television stations that we own and operate, or to which we provide (or from which we are provided) programming services or sales services, are affiliated with networks. The networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each station’s commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during programming. The amount and quality of programming provided by each network varies. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. Upon the termination of any of our network affiliation agreements, we would be required to establish a new network affiliation agreement for the affected station with another network or operate as an independent station. At such time, the remaining value of the network affiliation asset could become impaired and we would be required to write down the value of the asset to its estimated fair value. On February 9, 2009, MyNetworkTV announced that it was moving to a new program services model pursuant to which it would obtain for its affiliates popular programming that has previously aired on other networks, rather than continuing to create first-run programming as is generally the case in a typical network model. MyNetworkTV has advised us that in connection with this change to what it refers to as a “hybrid” model it believes it had the right to terminate all of its existing affiliate agreements and negotiate new agreements for this programming service with the television stations that have been MyNetworkTV affiliates. On March 3, 2009, we received notice from MyNetworkTV claiming that it had ceased to exist as a network and therefore, was terminating each of our affiliation agreements effective September 26, 2009. On Marc h 25, 2009, each of our subsidiaries that owned or operated stations which were affiliated with MyNetworkTV entered into an agreement, effective September 28, 2009, with a party related to MyNetworkTV to provide such stations with programming during the following year for the time periods previously programmed by MyNetworkTV, excluding programming for Saturday night. We cannot predict the likelihood of success of the new model by MyNetworkTV and the impact that this change will have on the performance of our stations. See Item 1. Business, Television Broadcasting table for further information regarding our affiliation agreements. We may not be able to negotiate our network affiliation agreements at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements upon their expiration. As network affiliation agreements come up for renewal, we may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements. All eight affiliation agreements between ABC which were to expire on December 31, 2009 have been extended to March 31, 2010 while negotiations are taking place. At this time, we cannot predict the 26 Table of Contents final outcome of future negotiations for those affiliation agreements or for any others and what impact, if any, they may have on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the impact of an increase in reverse network compensation payments, under which we compensate the network for programming, made by us to networks pursuant to our affiliation agreements may have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to renegotiate retransmission consent agreements upon expiration at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements and networks with which we are affiliated may attempt to require us to share revenue from retransmission consent agreements with them. As certain retransmission consent agreements expire, we may not be able to renegotiate such agreements at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements. This may cause revenues and/or revenue growth from our retransmission consent agreements to decrease under the renegotiated terms despite the fact that our current retransmission consent agreements include automatic annual fee escalators. In addition, certain of our networks with which we are affiliated may attempt to require us to share revenue from retransmission consent agreements with them as part of renewing expiring affiliation agreements or pursuant to certain rights contained in existing affiliation agreements. The effects of the economic environment could require us to record an asset impairment of goodwill and FCC licenses. We are required to analyze goodwill and certain other intangible assets for impairment. The accounting guidance establishes a method of testing goodwill and FCC licenses for impairment on an annual basis, or on an interim basis if an event occurs that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived asset below its carrying value. At least annually, we test our goodwill and FCC licenses for impairment. To perform this test, we estimate the fair values of our reporting units for goodwill and FCC licenses using a combination of observed prices paid for similar assets and liabilities, discounted cash flow models and appraisals. We make certain critical estimates about the future revenue growth rates within each of our markets as well as the discount rates and comparable multiples that would be used by market participants in an arms-length transaction. If these growth rates or multiples decline or if the discount rate increases, our goodwill and/or FCC licenses’ carrying amounts could be in excess of the estimated fair value. An impairment of some or all of the value of these assets could result in a material effect on the consolidated statements of operations in the future. As of December 31, 2009 we had approximately $660.0 million and $52.0 million of goodwill and broadcast licenses, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill and broadcast licenses in aggregate represented 44.6% of our total assets. Due to the recent economic recession, we may be more susceptible to additional impairment in the future. For additional information regarding impairments to our goodwill and broadcast licenses, see Note 4. Goodwill, Broadcast Licenses and Other Intangible Assets in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Key officers and directors have financial interests that are different and sometimes opposite from ours and we may engage in transactions with these officers and directors that may benefit them to the detriment of other securityholders. Some of our officers, directors and majority shareholders own stock or partnership interests in businesses that engage in television broadcasting, do business with us or otherwise do business that conflicts with our interests. They may transact some business with us upon approval by the independent members of our board of directors even if there is a conflict of interest or they may engage in business competitive to our business and those transactions may benefit the officers, directors or majority shareholders to the detriment of our securityholders. Each of David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, and J. Duncan Smith is an officer and director of Sinclair and Robert E. Smith is a director of Sinclair. Together, the Smiths hold shares of our common stock that control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. The Smiths own a controlling interest in Bay Television, Inc., a company that owns WTTA-TV in Tampa/St. Petersburg, Florida, a television station which we program pursuant to an LMA. The Smiths also own businesses that lease real property and tower space to us and engage in other transactions with it. Trusts established by Carolyn C. Smith, a parent of the Smiths for the benefit of her and her grandchildren own Cunningham, our LMA partner in six markets. In addition, we have been granted the rights to acquire, subject to applicable FCC rules and regulations, Cunningham (although the present rules and regulations of the FCC would not allow us to control the Cunningham Stations if we continue to hold television stations in the same market as the Cunningham Stations). David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, J. Duncan Smith, Robert E. Smith and David B. Amy, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, together own interests in Allegiance Capital Limited Partnership, a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest. Frederick G. Smith owns an interest in Patriot Capital II, L.P., a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest. We can give no assurance that these transactions or any transactions that we may enter into in the future with our officers, directors or majority shareholders, have been, or will be, negotiated on terms as favorable to us as we would obtain from unrelated parties. 27 Table of Contents Maryland law and our financing agreements limit the extent to which our officers, directors and majority shareholders may transact business with us and pursue business opportunities that we might pursue. These limitations do not, however, prohibit all such transactions. For additional information regarding our related person transactions, see Note 11. Related Person Transactions, in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Smiths exercise control over most matters submitted to a shareholder vote and may have interests that differ from other securityholders. They may, therefore, take actions that are not in the interests of other securityholders. David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, J. Duncan Smith and Robert E. Smith hold shares representing approximately 84.6% of the common stock voting rights of us as of February 26, 2010 and, therefore, control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders, including, but not limited to, electing directors, adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving corporate transactions. The Smiths hold substantially all of the Class B Common Stock, which have ten votes per share. Our Class A Common Stock has only one vote per share. In addition, the Smiths hold half our board of directors’ seats and, therefore, have the power to exert significant influence over our corporate management and policies. The Smiths have entered into a stockholders’ agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote for each other as candidates for election to our board of directors until June 13, 2015. Although in the past the Smiths have recused themselves from related person transactions, circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Smiths, as the controlling securityholders, could be in conflict with the interests of other securityholders and the Smiths would have the ability to cause us to take actions in their interest. In addition, the Smiths could pursue acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our other securityholders. (See Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters and Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, which will be included as part of our Proxy Statement for our 2010 Annual Meeting.) Significant divestitures by the Smiths could cause them to own or control less than 51% of the voting power of us, which would in turn give Cunningham the right to terminate the LMAs and other agreements with Cunningham due to a “change in control” of us. Any such terminations would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The FCC’s multiple ownership rules limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs. Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. See Changes in rules on local marketing agreements in the risk factor below. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC’s approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses and those of the stations we program pursuant to LMAs are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions are not approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned. In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including, but not limited to, technological changes in spectrum assigned to particular services) that could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See Item 1. Business.) The FCC’s multiple ownership rules limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs. Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. Changes in rules on television ownership Congress passed a bill requiring the FCC to establish a national audience reach cap of 39% that was signed into law on January 23, 2004. This law permits broadcast television owners to own more television stations nationally, potentially affecting our competitive position. In June 2003, the FCC adopted new multiple ownership rules. In September 2003, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit stayed the effectiveness of the rules. In June 2004, the court issued a decision which upheld a portion 28 Table of Contents of such rules and remanded the matter, including the local television ownership rule, to the FCC for further justification of the rules. The court left the stay of the 2003 rules in place pending the remand. Several parties, including us, filed petitions with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking review of the Third Circuit decision, but the Supreme Court denied the petitions in June 2005. In July 2006, as part of the FCC’s statutorily required quadrennial review of its media ownership rules, the FCC released Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making seeking comment on how to address the issued raised by the Third Circuit’s decision, including the local television ownership rules. In February 2008, the FCC released an order containing its current ownership rules, which re-adopted its 1999 local television ownership rule. On February 29, 2008, several parties, including us, separately filed petitions for review in a number of federal appellate courts challenging the FCC’s current ownership rules. By lottery, those petitions were consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In July 2008, several parties, including us, filed motions to transfer the consolidated proceedings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and other parties requested transfer to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In November 2008, the Ninth Circuit transferred the consolidated proceedings to the Third Circuit where the proceedings are currently pending. These rules would not allow us to control the Cunningham Stations if we continue to hold television stations in the same markets as the Cunningham Stations and could force us to terminate or modify the LMAs with the Cunningham Stations. In addition, if Cunningham were to exercise its put rights under the acquisition and merger agreements and the LMAs, each as amended and/or restated, we may have to find a suitable third party to assume our purchase obligations because we are not permitted to purchase such stations under current FCC rules. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate such a third party or that any such third party would continue the LMAs (or any alternative arrangements) with us on substantially similar terms that are as favorable to us or at all. Changes in rules on local marketing agreements Certain of our stations have entered into what have commonly been referred to as local marketing agreements or LMAs. One typical type of LMA is a programming agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the licensee of one station programs substantial portions of the broadcast day and sells advertising time during such programming segments on the other licensee’s station subject to the ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter licensee. We believe these arrangements allow us to reduce our operating expenses and enhance profitability. In 1999, the FCC established a new local television ownership rule and decided to attribute LMAs for ownership purposes. It grandfathered our LMAs that were entered into prior to November 5, 1996, permitting the applicable stations to continue operations pursuant to the LMAs until the conclusion of the FCC’s 2004 biennial review. The FCC stated it would conduct a case-by-case review of grandfathered LMAs and assess the appropriateness of extending the grandfathering periods. Subsequently, the FCC invited comments as to whether, instead of beginning the review of the grandfathered LMAs in 2004, it should do so in 2006. The FCC did not initiate any review of grandfathered LMAs in 2004 or as part of its 2006 quadrennial review. We do not know when, or if, the FCC will conduct any such review of grandfathered LMAs. With respect to LMAs executed on or after November 5, 1996, the FCC required that parties come into compliance with the 1999 local television ownership rule by August 6, 2001. We challenged the 1999 local television ownership rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and that court stayed the enforcement of the divestiture of the post-November 5, 1996 LMAs. In 2002, the D.C. Circuit ruled that the 1999 local television ownership rule was arbitrary and capricious and remanded the rule to the FCC. Currently, three of our LMAs are grandfathered under the local television ownership rule because they were entered into prior to November 5, 1996 and the remainder are subject to the stay imposed by the D.C. Circuit. If the FCC were to eliminate the grandfathering of these three LMAs, or the D.C. Circuit were to lift its stay, we would have to terminate or modify these LMAs. In 2003, the FCC revised its ownership rules, including the local television ownership rule. The effective date of the 2003 ownership rules was stayed by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and the rules were remanded to the FCC. Because the effective date of the 2003 ownership rules had been stayed and, in connection with the adoption of those rules, the FCC concluded the 1999 rules could not be justified as necessary in the public interest, we took the position that an issue exists regarding whether the FCC has any current legal right to enforce any rules prohibiting the acquisition of television stations. Several parties, including us, filed petitions with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking review of the Third Circuit decision, but the Supreme Court denied the petitions in June 2005. On November 15, 1999, we entered into a plan and agreement of merger to acquire through merger WMYA-TV (formerly WBSC-TV) in Anderson, South Carolina from Cunningham, but that transaction was denied by the FCC. In light of the change in the 2003 ownership rules, we filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC and amended our application to acquire the license of WMYA-TV. We also filed applications in November 2003 to acquire the license assets of the remaining five Cunningham stations: WRGT-TV, Dayton, Ohio; WTAT-TV, Charleston, South 29 Table of Contents Carolina; WVAH-TV, Charleston, West Virginia; WNUV-TV, Baltimore, Maryland; and WTTE-TV, Columbus, Ohio. Rainbow/PUSH filed a petition to deny these five applications and to revoke all of our licenses on the grounds that such acquisition would violate the local television ownership rules. The FCC dismissed our applications in light of the stay of the 2003 ownership rules and also denied the Rainbow/PUSH petition. Rainbow/PUSH filed a petition for reconsideration of that denial and we filed an application for review of the dismissal. In 2005, we filed a petition with the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit requesting that the Court direct the FCC to take final action on our applications, but that petition was dismissed. On January 6, 2006, we submitted a motion to the FCC requesting that it take final action on our applications. Both the applications and the associated petition to deny are still pending. We believe the Rainbow/PUSH petition is without merit. On February 8, 2008, we filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit requesting that the Court direct the FCC to take final action on these applications and cease its use of the 1999 local television ownership rule that it re-adopted as the permanent rule in 2008. In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit transferred the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and we filed a petition with the D.C. Circuit challenging that decision, which was denied. We also filed with the Ninth Circuit a motion to transfer that case back to the D.C. Circuit. In November 2008, the Ninth Circuit consolidated our petition seeking final FCC action on our applications with the petitions challenging the FCC’s current ownership rules and transferred the proceedings to the Third Circuit. In December 2008, we agreed voluntarily with the parties to the proceeding to dismiss the petition seeking final FCC action on the applications. In addition, if Cunningham were to exercise its put rights under the acquisition and merger agreements and the LMAs, each as amended and/or restated, we may have to find a suitable third party to assume our purchase obligations because we are not permitted to purchase such stations under current FCC rules. In the event of any such assignments, new applications will have to be filed to reflect the third party as the applicant. In that event, upon the closing of the assignment to such third party, our appeals relating to the 1999 local television ownership rules with respect to our three non-grandfathered LMAs may be moot and the three non-grandfathered LMAs may be terminated. If we are required to terminate or modify our LMAs, our business could be affected in the following ways: · Loss of revenues. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing LMAs, we would lose some or all of the revenues generated from those LMAs. We would lose revenue because we will have less demographic options, a smaller audience distribution and lower revenue share to offer to advertisers. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated $100.9 million of net revenue from our nine LMAs. · Increased costs. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing LMAs, our cost structure would increase. For example, we likely would incur increased programming costs because we will be competing with the separately owned station for syndicated programming. We may also need to add new employees. · Losses on investments. As part of our LMA arrangements, we own the non-license assets used by the stations with which we have LMAs. If certain of these LMA arrangements are no longer permitted, we would be forced to sell these assets, restructure our agreements or find another use for them. If this happens, the market for such assets may not be as good as when we purchased them and, therefore, we cannot be certain of a favorable return on our original investments. · Termination penalties. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing LMAs before the terms of the LMAs expire, or under certain circumstances, we elect not to extend the terms of the LMAs, we may be forced to pay termination penalties under the terms of some of our LMAs. Any such termination penalties could be material. · Alternative arrangements. If the FCC requires us to terminate the existing LMAs, we may enter into one or more alternative arrangements, such as outsourcing agreements, relating to the affected stations. Any such arrangements may be on terms that are less beneficial to us than the existing LMAs. Use of outsourcing agreements In addition to our LMAs, we have entered into four (and may seek opportunities for additional) outsourcing agreements in which our stations provide or are provided various non-programming related services such as sales, operational and managerial services to or by other stations. Pursuant to these agreements, one of our stations in Nashville, Tennessee and our station in Cedar Rapids, Iowa currently provide services to another station in each’s respective market and another party provides services to our stations in Peoria/Bloomington, Illinois and Rochester, New York. We believe this structure allows stations to achieve operational efficiencies and economies of scale, which should otherwise improve broadcast cash flow and competitive positions. While television joint sales agreements (JSAs) are not currently “attributable” under the FCC rules, on August 2, 2004, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comments on its tentative conclusion that JSAs should be attributable. We cannot predict the 30 Table of Contents outcome of this proceeding, nor can we predict how any changes, together with possible changes to the ownership rules, would apply to our existing outsourcing agreements. If the FCC were to determine that our outsourcing arrangements were JSAs, we would have to terminate or restructure such arrangements on terms that may not be as advantageous to us as the current arrangements. Failure of owner/licensee to exercise control The FCC requires the owner/licensee of a station to maintain independent control over the programming and operations of the station. As a result, the owners/licensees of those stations with which we have LMAs or outsourcing agreements can exert their control in ways that may be counter to our interests, including the right to preempt or terminate programming in certain instances. The preemption and termination rights cause some uncertainty as to whether we will be able to air all of the programming that we have purchased under our LMAs and therefore, uncertainty about the advertising revenue that we will receive from such programming. In addition, if the FCC determines that the owner/licensee is not exercising sufficient control, it may penalize the owner licensee by a fine, revocation of the license for the station or a denial of the renewal of that license. Any one of these scenarios, especially the revocation of or denial of renewal of a license, might result in a reduction of our cash flow and an increase in our operating costs or margins. In addition, penalties might also affect our qualifications to hold FCC licenses, putting our own licenses at risk. The pendency and indeterminacy of the outcome of these ownership rules, which may limit our ability to provide services to additional or existing stations pursuant to licenses, LMAs, outsourcing agreements or otherwise, expose us to a certain amount of volatility, particularly if the outcomes are adverse to us. Further, resolution of these ownership rules has been and will likely continue to be a cost burden and a distraction to our management and the continued absence of a resolution may have a negative effect on our business. Competition from other broadcasters or other content providers and changes in technology may cause a reduction in our advertising revenues and/or an increase in our operating costs. Conversion to digital television The television broadcast industry recently completed the mandated transition to an advanced digital television (DTV) transmission system. DTV transmissions deliver improved video and audio signals including HD television and have substantial multiplexing and data transmission capabilities. All television broadcasters were required to cease analog broadcasting by June 12, 2009. The conversion from broadcasting in the analog broadcast format to the digital broadcast format is expensive. Our digital conversion expenditures were $2.2 million, $2.0 million and $3.1 million respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. As of June 12, 2009, all of our 58 stations were broadcasting a digital signal. As of February 16, 2010 all but five of the television stations we own or to which we provide services are operating on authorized post-transition digital facilities. The remaining five television stations are operating pursuant to Tolling Requests filed with the FCC in order to extend the expiration date of their construction permit and to allow digital operations at variance from authorized post-transition facilities. There can be no assurance that the FCC will grant the Tolling Requests or will grant subsequent construction permit or license applications filed by the stations. As a result, there is no guarantee that the stations will ultimately be able to commence operations using the specific facilities required by the FCC for the stations’ post-digital transition facilities. If the stations are unable to do so, they could be subject to loss of interference protection, possible FCC enforcement action, and potential reductions in population service areas and potentially reduced viewership. Competition from other broadcasters or other content providers and changes in technology may cause a reduction in our advertising revenues and/or an increase in our operating costs. The television industry is highly competitive and this competition can draw viewers and advertisers from our stations, which reduces our revenue or requires us to pay more for programming, which increases our costs. We face intense competition from the following: New technology and the subdivision of markets Cable providers, direct broadcast satellite companies and telecommunication companies are developing new technology that allows them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television industry into ever more specialized niche markets. Competitors who target programming to such sharply defined markets may gain an advantage over us for television advertising revenues. The decreased cost of creating channels may also encourage new competitors to enter our markets and compete with us for advertising revenue. In addition, technologies that allow viewers to digitally record, store and play back television programming may decrease viewership of commercials as recorded by media measurement services such as Nielsen Media Research and, as a result, lower our advertising revenues. The broadcast and advertising industries have agreed on a ratings standard that includes live viewing plus 31 Table of Contents viewers who watch a program within 72 hours of its original appearance. However, the effects of new ratings system technologies, including “people meters,” and the ability of such technologies to be a reliable standard that can be used by advertisers is currently unknown. Since digital television technology allows broadcasting of multiple channels within the additional allocated spectrum, this technology could expose us to additional competition from programming alternatives. In addition, technological advancements and the resulting increase in programming alternatives, such as cable television, Direct Broadcast Satellite systems, pay-per-view, home video and entertainment systems, video-on-demand and the Internet have also created new types of competition to television broadcast stations and will increase competition for household audiences and advertisers. We cannot provide any assurances that we will remain competitive with these developing technologies. Types of competitors We also face competition from rivals that may have greater resources than we have. These include: · other local free over-the-air broadcast television and radio stations; · telecommunication companies; · cable and satellite system operators; · print media providers such as newspapers, direct mail and periodicals; · internet search engines, internet service providers and websites; and · competition from other emerging technologies including mobile television. Deregulation The Telecommunications Act of 1996 and subsequent actions by the FCC and the courts have removed some limits on station ownership, allowing telephone, cable and some other companies to provide video services in competition with us. In addition, the FCC has reallocated and auctioned off a portion of the spectrum for new services including fixed and mobile wireless services and digital broadcast services. As a result of these changes, new companies are able to enter our markets and compete with us. We could be adversely affected by labor disputes and legislation and other union activity. The cost of producing and distributing entertainment programming has increased substantially in recent years due to, among other things, the increasing demands of creative talent and industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. Although we generally purchase programming content from others rather than produce such content ourselves, our program suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and on-air and other talent, trade employees and others, some of whom are subject to these collective bargaining agreements. If our program suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Failure to renew these agreements, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect our business by causing delays in production that lead to declining viewers, and reductions in the profit margins of our programming and the amounts we can charge advertisers for time. Further, any changes in the existing labor laws, including the possible enactment of the Employee Free Choice Act, may further the realization of the foregoing risks. Unrelated third parties may bring claims against us based on the nature and content of information posted on websites maintained by us. We host internet services that enable individuals to exchange information, generate content, comment on our content, and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Our defense of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. 32 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines and other penalties related to violations of FCC indecency rules and other FCC rules and policies, the enforcement of which has increased in recent years, and complaints related to such violations may delay our renewal applications with the FCC. We provide a significant amount of live news reporting that is provided by the broadcast networks or is controlled by our on-air news talent. Although both broadcast network and our on-air talent have generally been professional and careful in what they say, there is always the possibility that information may be reported that is inaccurate or even in violation of certain indecency rules promulgated by the FCC. In addition, entertainment programming provided by broadcast networks may contain content that is in violation of the indecency rules promulgated by the FCC. Because the interpretation by the courts and the FCC of the indecency rules is not always clear, it is sometimes difficult for us to determine in advance what may be indecent programming. We have insurance to cover some of the liabilities that may occur, but the FCC has enhanced its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. In addition, in 2006, Congress dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subjects broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. We are currently subject to pending FCC inquiries and proceedings relating to alleged violations of indecency, sponsorship identification, children’s programming and captioning rules. There can be no assurance that an incident that may lead to significant fines or other penalties by the FCC can be avoided. In addition, action on many license renewal applications, including those we have filed, has been delayed because of, among other reasons, the pendency of complaints that programming aired by the various networks contained indecent material and complaints regarding alleged violations of sponsorship identification, children’s programming and captioning rules. As of February 26, 2010, 14 of our renewal applications were subject to such complaints. We cannot predict when the FCC will address these complaints and act on the renewal applications. We continue to have operating authority until final action is taken on our renewal applications. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations potentially adversely impacting our ability to compete. The FCC is considering a National Broadband Plan that may reallocate spectrum from broadcasters for other purposes which may include wireless broadband. This initiative raises a number of issues that could impact the broadcast industry depending on the use of the spectrum should it be reallocated. On February 24, 2010 the FCC announced that as part of the National Broadband Plan, it will propose a voluntary auction that would let broadcasters and other licensees sell their spectrum for a share of the proceeds. We cannot predict the outcome of results of the National Broadband Plan, or whether any final rules will have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Costs of complying with changes in governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict what other governmental laws or regulations will be enacted in the future, how future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or how future laws or regulations will affect us. Compliance with new laws or regulations, including proposed legislation to address climate change, or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require us to incur significant expenditures or impose significant restrictions on us and could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The continuation of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan may negatively impact our advertising revenues and results of operations. Future conflicts, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may have a similar effect. The commencement of the war in Iraq in 2002 and activities in Afghanistan resulted in a reduction of advertising revenues as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and/or general economic uncertainty. The continuation of these wars may have a similar negative impact on our advertising revenues and results of operations. If the United States becomes engaged in similar conflicts in the future, there may be a similar adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, any terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may have a similar negative effect on our business or results of operations. 33 Table of Contents If our Class A Common Stock fails to meet all applicable listing requirements, it could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which could adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our Class A Common Stock and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our Class A common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (the Exchange) under the symbol “SBGI.” If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Exchange, our Class A Common Stock could be delisted from the Exchange. These continued listing standards include, among others, maintaining a $1.00 minimum closing bid price per share. Our Class A Common Stock has traded at or below $1.00 per share in 2009. If our Class A Common Stock trades below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive trading days, there can be no assurance that NASDAQ will not take action to enforce its listing requirements. If our Class A Common Stock were to be delisted from the Exchange, we could apply to list our Class A Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or our Class A Common Stock could be traded in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board, such as the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price and the liquidity of our Class A Common Stock, impair our ability to raise capital necessary to maintain operations and services our debt, cause a potential loss of investor interest in our securities, cause a potential loss of confidence among our employees and customers of our services and otherwise negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 