Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to regional, national and global economic conditions. A decline in economic conditions throughout the United States could depress demand for our products. 7 Table of Contents We may be impacted by a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. We purchase a variety of raw materials and finished goods from sources around the world. Our purchase prices could increase if the U.S. dollar declines in value. We are subject to fluctuations in the price of lumber. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of commodity lumber products from primary producers (the "Lumber Market"). A variety of factors over which we have no control, including government regulations, environmental regulations, weather conditions, economic conditions, and natural disasters, impact the cost of lumber products and our selling prices. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations, substantial, prolonged trends in lumber prices can negatively affect our sales volume, our gross margins, and our profitability. We anticipate that these fluctuations will continue in the future. Our growth may be limited by the markets we serve. Our sales growth is dependent, in part, upon the growth of the markets we serve. If our markets do not achieve anticipated growth, or if we fail to maintain our market share, financial results could be impaired. Our ability to achieve sales and margin goals, particularly on sales to the residential and commercial construction and manufactured housing markets, is impacted by housing starts and industry production of manufactured homes. If housing starts and manufactured housing production declines significantly, our financial results could be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with one customer. Our sales to The Home Depot comprised 17% of our total sales in 2013, 18% in 2012, and 23% in 2011. Economic and credit market conditions impact our ability to collect a greater percentage of our receivables. Economic and credit conditions may significantly impact our bad debt expense. We continue to monitor our customers’ credit profiles carefully and make changes in our terms when necessary in response to this risk. We may be impacted by vertical integration strategies. In certain markets and product lines, our customers or vendors could pursue vertical integration strategies that could have an adverse effect on our sales. We strive to add value and be a low-cost producer while maintaining competitive pricing in each of our markets to mitigate this risk. We may be impacted by excess capacity among suppliers. There is excess capacity among suppliers in each of the markets we serve. Our selling prices and gross margins have been and are likely to continue to be impacted by this excess capacity. Our growth may be limited by our ability to make successful acquisitions. A key component of our growth strategy is to complete business combinations. Business combinations involve inherent risks, including assimilation and successfully managing growth. While we conduct extensive due diligence and have taken steps to ensure successful assimilation, factors beyond our control could influence the results of these acquisitions. 8 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we are at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental regulations. If additional laws and regulations are enacted, which restrict our ability to manufacture and market our products, including our treated lumber products, it could adversely affect our sales and profits. If existing laws are interpreted differently, it could also increase our financial costs. Current legislation requiring the use of alternate fuel and energy sources is expected to increase our energy costs. If additional laws and regulations regarding carbon emission, mandating the use of more expensive energy choices, cap and trade, or taxes and fees on resource use are enacted, it will significantly increase our costs of operation, raise costs to our customers, and create a further barrier to demand for United States manufactured products. CCA treated lumber products could impact our operations adversely. In connection with the chemical treatment of lumber products, certain of our affiliates market a modest amount of CCA (Chromated Copper Arsenate) treated products for permitted, non-residential applications. From time to time, various special interests and environmental groups have petitioned certain states requesting restrictions on the use or disposal of CCA treated products. The wood preservation industry trade groups have been and are working with individual states and the regulatory agencies to provide an accurate, factual background that demonstrates that the present method of uses and disposal is scientifically supported. While the level of activity in this area has diminished over time, our inability to market CCA treated products could impact our operations adversely. The current version of federal health care legislation may dramatically increase our costs. The federal health care legislation enacted in 2010 and future regulations called for under the legislation may have a significant cost implication for our company. Seasonality and weather conditions could adversely affect us. Some aspects of our business are seasonal in nature and results of operations vary from quarter to quarter. Our treated lumber and outdoor specialty products, such as fencing, decking, and lattice, experience the greatest seasonal effects. Sales of treated lumber, primarily consisting of southern yellow pine, also experience the greatest Lumber Market risk (see "Historical Lumber Prices" in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which is presented under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference). Treated lumber sales are generally at their highest levels between April and August. This sales peak, combined with capacity constraints in the wood treatment process, requires us to build our inventory of treated lumber throughout the winter and spring. (This also has an impact on our receivables balances, which tend to be significantly higher at the end of the second and third quarters.) Because sales prices of treated lumber products may be indexed to the Lumber Market at the time they are shipped, our profits can be negatively affected by prolonged declines in the Lumber Market during our primary selling season. To mitigate this risk, consignment inventory programs may be negotiated with certain vendors that are intended to decrease our exposure to the Lumber Market by correlating the purchase price of the material with the related sell price to the customer. These programs include those materials which are most susceptible to adverse changes in the Lumber Market. 9 Table of Contents The majority of our products are used or installed in outdoor construction activities; therefore, short-term sales volume, our gross margins, and our profits can be negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly in our first and fourth quarters. In addition, adverse weather conditions can negatively impact our productivity and costs per unit. Inbound and outbound transportation costs represent a significant part of our cost structure. A rapid and prolonged increase in fuel prices will significantly increase our costs. While we attempt to pass these costs along to our customers, there can be no assurance that they would agree to these price increases. New alternatives may be developed to replace traditional treated wood products. The manufacturers of wood preservatives continue to develop new preservatives. While we believe treated products are reasonably priced relative to alternative products such as composites or vinyl, new alternatives may impact the sales of treated wood products. In addition, new preservatives could increase our cost of treating products in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 