Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that may affect Newfield’s business and results of operations. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information contained in this report, the risks described below. Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce. These prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount that we can borrow under our credit facility could be limited by changing expectations of future prices because the amount that we may borrow under our credit facility is determined by our lenders annually each May (and may be redetermined at the option of our 7 Table of Contents lenders in the case of certain acquisitions or divestitures) using a process that takes into account the value of our estimated reserves and hedge position and the lenders’ commodity price assumptions. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations in oil and gas prices are: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather conditions; • changes in demand as a result of changes in price; • the price of foreign imports; • world-wide economic conditions; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and • domestic and foreign governmental regulations. We have substantial capital requirements to fund our business plans, and the current poor conditions generally in the economy and in the financial markets could jeopardize our ability to execute our business plans. Although we have reduced our 2009 capital budget to a level that we believe corresponds with our anticipated 2009 cash flows, since the timing of capital expenditures and the receipt of cash flows do not necessarily match, we anticipate borrowing and repaying funds under our credit arrangements throughout the year. We may have to further reduce capital expenditures and our ability to execute our business plans could be diminished if (1) one or more of the lenders under our existing credit arrangements fail to honor its contractual obligation to lend to us, (2) the amount that we are allowed to borrow under our existing credit facility is reduced as a result of lower oil and gas prices, declines in reserves, lending requirements or for other reasons or (3) our customers or working interest owners default on their obligations to us. Global credit markets have been, and continue to be, distressed. In this environment, the cost of raising money in the financial markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished. In the current environment, many lenders have increased rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity or on similar terms to existing debt and have reduced or ceased to provide new funding. In addition, to the extent that purchasers of our production or our working interest owners have difficulty financing their business activities, there could be an increased risk that purchasers of our production may default in their contractual obligations to us or that working interest owners may be unable or unwilling to pay their share of costs as they become due. Although we perform credit analyses on our customers, the general downturn in the economy and tightening of the financial markets could increase the risk that our customers and working interest owners fail to perform. Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts may limit future revenues from price increases and involves the risk that our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. We generally hedge a substantial, but varying, portion of our anticipated future oil and natural gas production for the next 12-24 months as part of our risk management program. In the case of significant acquisitions, we may hedge acquired production for a longer period. In addition, we may utilize basis contracts to hedge the differential between the NYMEX Henry Hub posted prices and those of our physical pricing points. Reducing our exposure to price volatility helps ensure that we have adequate funds available for our capital programs and helps us manage returns on some of our acquisitions and more price sensitive drilling programs. Although the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that counterparties, which generally are financial institutions, may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. Although we have entered into hedging contracts with multiple counterparties to mitigate our exposure to any individual counterparty, if any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger 8 Table of Contents percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. In addition, in the current economic environment and tight financial markets, the risk of a counterparty default is heightened and it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in future hedging transactions, which could result in greater concentration of our exposure to any one counterparty or a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must continue to develop existing reserves and locate or acquire new oil and gas reserves. We accomplish this through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost. In addition, these activities require substantial capital expenditures. Although we have reduced our 2009 capital budget to a level that we believe corresponds with our anticipated 2009 cash flows, we anticipate borrowing and repaying funds under our credit arrangements throughout the year to the extent that the timing of capital expenditures and the receipt of cash flows from operations do not match. We anticipate that any cash flow shortfall will be made up with cash on hand and borrowings under our credit arrangements. Lower oil and gas prices or unexpected operating constraints or production difficulties will decrease cash flow from operations and could limit our ability to borrow under our credit arrangements. In addition, in the past, we often have increased our capital budget during the year as a result of acquisitions or successful drilling. Our ability to fund attractive acquisition opportunities and future capital programs may be dependent on our ability to access capital markets. Further or continued volatility in the credit markets could adversely impact our ability to obtain financing at all or on acceptable terms. Because all of our credit arrangements provide for variable interest rates, higher interest rates would also reduce cash flow. For a detailed discussion of our credit arrangements and liquidity, please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this report and Note 9, “Debt,” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysic, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires a number of economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of our proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at year-end. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs we used. In addition, actual production rates for future periods may vary significantly from the rates assumed in the calculation. There is limited refining capacity for our black wax crude oil, and our ability to sell our current production or to increase our production at Monument Butte may be limited by the demand for our crude oil production. Most of the crude oil we produce in the Uinta Basin is known as “black wax” because it has 9 Table of Contents higher paraffin content than crude oil found in most other major North American basins. Due to its wax content, it must remain heated during shipping, so the oil is transported by truck to refiners in the Salt Lake City area. We currently have agreements in place with two area refiners that secure base load sales of approximately 5,000 BOPD through the end of 2009. In the current economic environment and tight financial markets, there is an increased risk that they may fail to satisfy their obligations to us under those contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the largest purchaser of our black wax crude oil failed to pay for certain deliveries of crude oil and filed for bankruptcy protection. Although we continue to sell our black wax crude oil to that purchaser on a short-term basis that provides for more timely cash payments, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to sell to this purchaser or that similar substitute arrangements could be made for sales of our black wax crude oil with other purchasers if desired. We continue to work with refiners to expand the market for our existing black wax crude oil production and to secure additional capacity to allow for production growth. However, without additional refining capacity, our ability to increase production from the field may be limited. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors resulted in a ceiling test writedown and may in the future result in additional ceiling test writedowns or other impairments. We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling test writedown.” As of December 31, 2008, we recorded a $1.8 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) ceiling test writedown. Although a ceiling test writedown does not impact cash flow from operations, it does reduce our stockholders’ equity. Once recorded, a ceiling test writedown is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas prices increase. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (excluding the effect of our hedging contracts that are not designated for hedge accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our results. The net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties are computed on a country-by-country basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could be unaffected. We also assess investments in unproved properties periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred. The risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, writedowns may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. We may experience further ceiling test writedowns or other impairments in the future. In addition, any future ceiling test cushion would be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity. Drilling is a high-risk activity. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, the drilling of wells involves the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; • adverse weather conditions; • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; • equipment failures or accidents; and • compliance with governmental requirements. 10 Table of Contents The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us against all of these risks. These risks include: • fires and explosions; • blow-outs; • uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • pipeline ruptures; • discharges of toxic gases; and • build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil and gas reservoirs; • pollution and other environmental damage; • investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Offshore and deepwater operations are subject to a variety of operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions have in the past, and may in the future, cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Some of our offshore operations, and most of our deepwater operations, are dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities that we do not own. Necessary infrastructures have been in the past, and may be in the future, temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or may not be available to us in the future at all or on acceptable terms. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not insurable. Exploration in deepwater involves significant financial risks, and we may be unable to obtain the drilling rigs or support services necessary for our deepwater drilling and development programs in a timely manner or at acceptable rates. Much of the deepwater play lacks the physical and oilfield service infrastructure necessary for production. As a result, development of a deepwater discovery may be a lengthy process and require substantial capital investment. Because of their size, we may not serve as the operator of significant projects in which we invest. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over operations related to these projects or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these deepwater projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital. In addition, there is limited availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel, and deepwater drilling rigs typically are subject to long-term contracts. This can lead to difficulty and delays in consistently obtaining 11 Table of Contents drilling rigs and other equipment and services at acceptable rates, which, in turn, may lead to projects being delayed or increased costs. This also makes it difficult to estimate the timing of our production. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. Our continued drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals. Despite the recent decline in commodity prices and lower industry activity levels, competition for these professionals remains strong. We are likely to continue to experience increased costs to attract and retain these professionals. There is competition for available oil and gas properties. Our competitors include major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies and financial buyers. Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse resources than we do. High commodity prices and stiff competition for acquisitions have in the past, and may in the future, significantly increase the cost of available properties. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections will not likely be performed on every well or facility, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and development and the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; • response to unexpected releases to the environment; • reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and state leases; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages. We also could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, 12 Table of Contents suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Potential regulations regarding climate change could alter the way we conduct our business. Governments around the world are beginning to address climate change matters. This may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States is subject to the various risks inherent in international operations. These risks may include: • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and quasi-governmental agencies; • changes in laws and policies governing operations of non-U.S. based companies; • labor problems; and • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations also may be adversely affected by the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises with respect to our international operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of non-U.S. courts or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, some of our arrangements with employees and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change of control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. In addition, our change of control severance plan and agreements, our omnibus stock plans and our incentive compensation plan contain provisions that provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options, upon a change of control. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or reduce the price our stockholders receive in an acquisition of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 