ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence and employee relations. The risks described below, along with risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may impair our business operations and our liquidity in an adverse way. Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond our control. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our securities. We rely on sales of advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results depend on the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less advertising revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on: · the levels of automobile advertising, which historically have represented about one quarter of our advertising revenue; however, for the year ended December 31, 2013, automobile advertising represented 25.2% of our net time sales; · the health of the economy in the area where our television stations are located and in the nation as a whole; · the popularity of our programming and that of our competition; · the levels of political advertising, which are affected by campaign finance laws and the ability of political candidates and political action committees to raise and spend funds and are subject to seasonal fluctuations; · the reliability of our ratings information measurements, including new ratings system technologies such as “people meters” and “set-top boxes”; · changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; · the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, MVPDs, internet and broadband content providers and other print and media outlets serving in the same markets; and · other factors that may be beyond our control. After a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009 that affected our advertising revenue, we experienced a rebound in advertising spending in 2010 due primarily to a resurgence of the automotive industry, our largest advertising category, and a contentious mid-term election resulting in record political revenues. In 2012, we recorded record levels of political advertising and benefited from strong results in our automotive advertising category. There can be no assurance that our advertising revenue will not be volatile in the future or that such volatility will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have a high level of debt, totaling $3,034.0 million at December 31, 2013, compared to the book value of shareholders’ equity of $405.7 million on the same date. Our relatively high level of debt poses the following risks, particularly in periods of declining revenues: · we may be unable to service our debt obligations, including payments on notes as they come due, especially during general negative economic and market industry conditions; · we may use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our outstanding debt, especially during general negative economic and market industry conditions; · the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes may be limited because a significant portion of cash flow is used to pay principal and interest on outstanding debt; · our lenders may not be as willing to lend additional amounts to us for future working capital needs, additional acquisitions or other purposes; · the cost to borrow from lenders may increase; · our ability to access the capital markets may be limited, and we may be unable to issue securities with pricing or other terms that we find attractive, if at all; · if our cash flow were inadequate to make interest and principal payments, we might have to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell one or more of our stations to reduce debt service obligations; · we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than less leveraged competitors and thus, less able to withstand competitive pressures; and 27 Table of Contents · because the interest rate under the Bank Credit Agreement is a floating rate, any increase will reduce the funds available to repay our obligations and for operations and future business opportunities and will make us more vulnerable to the consequences of our leveraged capital structure. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $1,146.4 million principal amount of our recourse debt relates to the Bank Credit Agreement. Any of these events could reduce our ability to generate cash available for investment, debt repayment or capital improvements or to respond to events that would enhance profitability. Commitments we have made to our lenders limit our ability to take actions that could increase the value of our securities and business or may require us to take actions that decrease the value of our securities and business. Our existing financing agreements prevent us from taking certain actions and require us to meet certain tests. These restrictions and tests may require us to conduct our business in ways that make it more difficult to repay unsecured debt or decrease the value of our securities and business. These restrictions and tests include the following: · restrictions on additional debt; · restrictions on our ability to pledge our assets as security for indebtedness; · restrictions on payment of dividends, the repurchase of stock and other payments relating to our capital stock; · restrictions on some sales of certain assets and the use of proceeds from asset sales; · restrictions on mergers and other acquisitions, satisfaction of conditions for acquisitions and a limit on the total amount of acquisitions without the consent of bank lenders; · restrictions on permitted investments; · restrictions on the lines of business we and our subsidiaries may operate; and · financial ratio and condition tests including the ratio of adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted (adjusted EBITDA) to adjusted interest expense, the ratio of first lien indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA and the ratio of Sinclair Television Group, Inc. (STG) total indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA. Future financing arrangements may contain additional restrictions and tests. All of these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies, prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our securities or may require actions that decrease the value of our securities. In addition, we may fail to meet the tests and thereby default on one or more of our obligations (particularly if the economy weakens and thereby reduces our advertising revenues). If we default on our obligations, creditors could require immediate payment of the obligations or foreclose on collateral. If this happens, we could be forced to sell assets or take other actions that could significantly reduce the value of our securities and business and we may not have sufficient assets or funds to pay our debt obligations. A failure to comply with covenants under our debt instruments could result in a default under such debt instruments, acceleration of amounts due under our debt and loss of assets securing our loans. Certain of our debt agreements contain cross-default provisions with our other debt, which means that a default under certain of our debt instruments may cause a default under certain indentures or the Bank Credit Agreement. If we breach certain of our debt covenants, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately take possession of the property securing such debt. In addition, if any other lender declared its loan due and payable as a result of a default, the holders of our outstanding notes, along with the lenders under the Bank Credit Agreement, might be able to require us to pay those debts immediately. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet our obligations. Any insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding relating to material third-party licensees as defined by our Bank Credit Agreement, would cause a default and potential acceleration under the Bank Credit Agreement. Our Bank Credit Agreement contains certain cross-default provisions with certain material third-party licensees, defined as any party that owns the license assets of one or more television stations for which we provided services to pursuant to LMAs and/or other outsourcing agreements and those stations provide 10% or more of our aggregate broadcast cash flows. A default caused by an involuntary or voluntary petition filed for liquidation, reorganization or other relief of insolvency by a material third-party licensee, or a failure of a material third-party licensee to preserve and maintain its legal existence or any of its material rights, privileges or franchises including its broadcast licenses, would cause an event of default and potential acceleration under our Bank 28 Table of Contents Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2013, there were no material third party licensees as defined in our Bank Credit Agreement. Despite current debt levels, we may be able to incur significantly more debt in the future, which could increase the foregoing risks related to our indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we had $154.5 million available (subject to certain borrowing conditions) for additional borrowings under the revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) of the Bank Credit Agreement. Additionally, we have $200.0 million of Term Loan A to be drawn in 2014 to partially fund pending acquisitions. Under the terms of the debt instruments to which we are subject, and provided we meet certain financial and other covenants, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional senior debt and secured debt. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described in the risk factors in this report relating to having substantial debt could intensify. Our strategic acquisitions could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions, our liquidity and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, with the goal of improving our business. During 2013, we acquired certain assets related to, and/or equity of entities that own assets related to, and we began operating or providing certain services to 63 television stations. We may not be able to identify other attractive acquisition targets or we may not be able to fund additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could strain our human resources. We may not be able to successfully implement effective costs controls or increase revenues as a result of an acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our core business. Certain acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest certain television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. Our investments in other operating divisions involve risks, including the diversion of resources, that may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our other operating divisions consist of businesses involved in sign design and fabrication, regional security alarm operations, fabrication and service of television broadcast antennas and transmitters, real estate ventures and a wrestling programming franchise and are reported separately from our broadcast segment. Managing the operations of these businesses and the costs incurred by these businesses involve risks, including the diversion of our management’s attention from managing the operations of our broadcast businesses and diverting other resources that could be used in our broadcast businesses. Such diversion of resources may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, our investments in real estate ventures carry inherent risks related to owning interests in real property, including, among others, the relative illiquidity of real estate, potential adverse changes in real estate market conditions, and changes in tenant preferences. There can be no assurance that our investments in these businesses will yield a positive rate of return or otherwise be recoverable. Financial and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial condition. Financial and economic conditions have been challenging and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could further reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Poor economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive industry and service businesses, each of which is a significant source of our advertising revenue. Additionally, financial institutions, capital providers, or other consumers may be adversely affected. Potential consequences of any financial and economic decline include: · the financial condition of those companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automobile manufacturers and dealers, may be adversely affected and could result in a significant decline in our advertising revenue; · our ability to pursue the acquisition of attractive television and non-television assets may be limited if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional capital on favorable terms, if at all; · our ability to pursue the divestiture of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited; 29 Table of Contents · the possibility that our business partners, such as our counterparties to our outsourcing and news share arrangements, could be negatively impacted and our ability to maintain these business relationships could also be impaired; and · our ability to refinance our existing debt on terms and at interest rates we find attractive, if at all, may be impaired; · our ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired. We must purchase television programming in advance based on expectations about future revenues. Actual revenues may be lower than our expectations. If this happens, we could experience losses that may make our securities less valuable. One of our most significant costs is television programming. Our ability to generate revenue to cover this cost may affect the value of our securities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we generally purchase programming content from others rather than producing such content ourselves, we have limited control over the costs of the programming. Often we must purchase programming several years in advance and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming. We may replace programs that are doing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred or before we have fully amortized the costs. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. These factors are exacerbated during a weak advertising market. Additionally, our business is subject to the popularity of the programs provided by the networks with which we have network affiliation agreements or which provide us programming. We may lose a large amount of programming if a network terminates its affiliation or program service arrangement with us, which could increase our costs and/or reduce revenue. Out of our 135 full power television stations that we own and operate, or to which we provide (or for which we are provided) programming services and/or sales services, 134 are affiliated with networks, as of February 24, 2014. The networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each station’s commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during programming. The amount and quality of programming provided by each network varies. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. Upon the termination of any of our network affiliation agreements, we would be required to establish a new network affiliation agreement for the affected station with another network or operate as an independent station. At such time, the remaining value of the network affiliation asset could become impaired and we would be required to record impairment charges to write down the value of the asset to its estimated fair value. We may not be able to negotiate our network affiliation agreements or program service arrangements at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements upon their expiration. As network affiliation agreements come up for renewal, we (or licensees of the stations we provide programming and/or sales services to), may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements. On March 25, 2010, we agreed to terms on a renewal of nine of our ABC network affiliation agreements, expiring on August 31, 2015. On January 24, 2011, we extended 16 of our MyNetworkTV affiliation agreements, expiring fall 2014. In 2011 we extended ten of our CW network affiliation agreements, expiring August 31, 2016. On May 14, 2012, we agreed to terms of renewal of 20 FOX network affiliation agreements, expiring December 31, 2017. Pursuant to the terms, we are required to pay an annual license fee to ABC and a network programming fee to FOX for network programming. Effective January 1, 2013, we extended two of our CBS affiliation agreements, expiring December 31, 2018. Our ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, CW, MyNetworkTV, Azteca, and Univision affiliation agreements acquired in 2012 and 2013 have expirations dates ranging from June 30, 2014, through December 31, 2018. See footnote (c) in the table under “Business—Television broadcasting—Markets and stations” above. We cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to our affiliation agreements or what impact, if any, they may have on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the impact of an increase in reverse network compensation payments, under which we compensate the network for programming pursuant to our affiliation agreements, may have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to renegotiate retransmission consent agreements at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements and networks with which we are affiliated are currently, or in the future are expected to, require us to share revenue from retransmission consent agreements with them. 30 Table of Contents As retransmission consent agreements expire, we may not be able to renegotiate such agreements at terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements. This may cause revenues and/or revenue growth from our retransmission consent agreements to decrease under the renegotiated terms despite the fact that our current retransmission consent agreements include automatic annual fee escalators. In addition, certain of our networks or program service providers with which we are affiliated are currently, or in the future are expected to, require us to share revenue from retransmission consent agreements with them as part of renewing expiring affiliation agreements or pursuant to certain rights contained in existing affiliation agreements. There can be no assurances that the amounts shared will not increase at expiration of the current contracts. The effects of the economic environment could require us to record an asset impairment of goodwill and broadcast licenses. We are required to analyze goodwill and certain other intangible assets for impairment. The accounting guidance establishes a method of testing goodwill and broadcast licenses for impairment on an annual basis, or on an interim basis if an event occurs that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived asset below its carrying value. At least annually, we assess our goodwill and broadcast licenses for impairment. To perform this assessment, we review certain qualitative factors to conclude whether it is more likely than not that goodwill or broadcast licenses are impaired. If we conclude it is more likely than not that goodwill or broadcast licenses are impaired, we estimate the fair value of our reporting units or broadcast licenses using a combination of observed prices paid for similar assets and liabilities, discounted cash flow models and appraisals. We make certain critical estimates about the future revenue growth rates within each of our markets as well as the discount rates and comparable multiples that would be used by market participants in an arms-length transaction. If these growth rates or multiples decline, or if the discount rate increases, our goodwill and/or broadcast licenses’ carrying amounts could be in excess of the estimated fair values. An impairment of some or all of the value of these assets could result in a material effect on the consolidated statements of operations in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1,380.1 million and $101.0 million of goodwill and broadcast licenses, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, goodwill and broadcast licenses in aggregate represented 35.7% of our total assets. For additional information regarding impairments to our goodwill and broadcast licenses, see Note 5. Goodwill, Broadcast Licenses and Other Intangible Assets in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Key officers and directors have financial interests that are different and sometimes opposite from ours and we may engage in transactions with these officers and directors that may benefit them to the detriment of other securityholders. Some of our officers, directors and majority shareholders own stock or partnership interests in businesses that engage in television broadcasting, do business with us or otherwise do business that conflicts with our interests. They may transact some business with us upon approval by the independent members of our board of directors even if there is a conflict of interest or they may engage in business competitive to our business and those transactions may benefit the officers, directors or majority shareholders to the detriment of our securityholders. Each of David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, and J. Duncan Smith is an officer and director of Sinclair and Robert E. Smith is a director of Sinclair. Together, the Smiths hold shares of our common stock that control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. The Smiths own businesses that lease real property and tower space to us and engage in other transactions with us. Trusts established for the benefit of the children of our controlling shareholders and the estate of Carolyn C. Smith, a parent of our controlling shareholders, own Cunningham, which owns television stations in nine markets that we operate under LMAs or other outsourcing agreements. In addition, we have been granted the rights to acquire, subject to applicable FCC rules and regulations, Cunningham (although the present rules and regulations of the FCC would not allow us to control the stations of Cunningham (the Cunningham Stations) if we continue to hold television stations in the same market as the Cunningham Stations). David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, J. Duncan Smith, Robert E. Smith and David B. Amy, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, together own interests (less than 5% in aggregate) in Allegiance Capital Limited Partnership, a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest. Frederick G. Smith owns an interest (less than 1%) in Patriot Capital II, L.P., a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest. David Smith owns an interest (less than 3%) in Towson Row LLC, a real estate venture, which we also hold an interest. We can give no assurance that these transactions or any transactions that we may enter into in the future with our officers, directors or majority shareholders, have been, or will be, negotiated on terms as favorable to us as we would obtain from unrelated parties. Maryland law and our financing agreements limit the extent to which our officers, directors and majority shareholders may transact business with us and pursue business opportunities that we might pursue. These limitations do not, however, prohibit all such transactions. For additional information regarding our related person transactions, see Note 11. Related Person Transactions, in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. 31 Table of Contents We depend on the efforts of our management and other key employees. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to develop and retain management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. The Smiths exercise control over most matters submitted to a shareholder vote and may have interests that differ from other securityholders. They may, therefore, take actions that are not in the interests of other securityholders. David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, J. Duncan Smith and Robert E. Smith hold shares representing approximately 75.3% of the common stock voting rights of us as of February 20, 2014 and, therefore, control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders, including, but not limited to, electing directors, adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving corporate transactions. The Smiths hold substantially all of the Class B Common Stock, which have ten votes per share. Our Class A Common Stock has only one vote per share. In addition, the Smiths hold half our board of directors’ seats and, therefore, have the power to exert significant influence over our corporate management and policies. The Smiths have entered into a stockholders’ agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote for each other as candidates for election to our board of directors until June 13, 2015. Although in the past the Smiths have recused themselves from related person transactions, circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Smiths, as the controlling securityholders, could be in conflict with the interests of other securityholders and the Smiths would have the ability to cause us to take actions in their interest. In addition, the Smiths could pursue acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our other securityholders. Further, the concentration of ownership in the Smiths may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. (See Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters and Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, which will be included as part of our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting.) Significant divestitures by the Smiths could cause them to own or control less than 51% of the voting power of our shares, which would in turn give Cunningham the right to terminate the LMAs and other agreements with Cunningham due to a “change in control.” Any such terminations would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The FCC’s multiple ownership rules limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs. Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. See Changes in rules on local marketing agreements in the risk factor below. We may be subject to fines and other penalties related to violations of FCC indecency rules and other FCC rules and policies, the enforcement of which has increased in recent years, and complaints related to such violations may delay our renewal applications with the FCC. We provide a significant amount of live news reporting that is provided by the broadcast networks or is controlled by our on-air news talent. Although both broadcast network and our on-air talent have generally been professional and careful in what they say, there is always the possibility that information may be reported that is inaccurate or even in violation of certain indecency rules promulgated by the FCC. In addition, entertainment and sports programming provided by broadcast networks may contain content that is in violation of the indecency rules promulgated by the FCC. Because the interpretation by the courts and the FCC of the indecency rules is not always clear, it is sometimes difficult for us to determine in advance what may be indecent programming. We have insurance to cover some of the liabilities that may occur, but the FCC has enhanced its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. In addition, in 2006, Congress dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subjects broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. We are currently subject to pending FCC inquiries and proceedings relating to alleged violations of indecency, sponsorship identification, children’s programming and captioning rules. There can be no assurance that an incident that may lead to significant fines or other penalties by the FCC can be avoided. In addition, action on many license renewal applications, including those we have filed, has been delayed because of, among other reasons, the pendency of complaints that programming aired by the various networks contained indecent material and complaints regarding alleged violations of sponsorship identification, children’s programming and captioning rules. We cannot predict when the FCC will address these complaints and act on the renewal applications. We continue to have operating authority until final action is taken on our renewal applications. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs. 32 Table of Contents The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC’s approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that hold a license. Our FCC licenses and those of the licensees for which we provide services to pursuant to LMAs, JSAs, SSAs, and other outsourcing agreements are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions are not approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned. In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including, but not limited to, technological changes in spectrum assigned to particular services) that could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See Item 1. Business.) The FCC’s multiple ownership rules limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs. Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. Changes in rules on television ownership Congress passed a bill requiring the FCC to establish a national audience reach cap of 39% that was signed into law on January 23, 2004. The FCC is currently considering elimination of the discount given to owners of UHF stations in determining compliance with the cap. Because we would be near the 39% cap without application of the UHF discount, the proposed change, if adopted, could limit our ability to acquire television stations in additional markets. In June 2003, the FCC adopted new multiple ownership rules. In September 2003, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit stayed the effectiveness of the rules. In June 2004, the court issued a decision which upheld a portion of such rules and remanded the matter, including the local television ownership rule, to the FCC for further justification of the rules. The court left the stay of the 2003 rules in place pending the remand. Several parties, including us, filed petitions with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking review of the Third Circuit decision, but the Supreme Court denied the petitions in June 2005. In July 2006, as part of the FCC’s statutorily required quadrennial review of its media ownership rules, the FCC released a Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making seeking comment on how to address the issues raised by the Third Circuit’s decision, including the local television ownership rules. In February 2008, the FCC released an order containing its current ownership rules, which re-adopted its 1999 local television ownership rule. On February 29, 2008, several parties, including us, separately filed petitions for review in a number of federal appellate courts challenging the FCC’s current ownership rules. By lottery, those petitions were consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In July 2008, several parties, including us, filed motions to transfer the consolidated proceedings in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and other parties requested transfer to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In November 2008, the Ninth Circuit transferred the consolidated proceedings to the Third Circuit. On July 7, 2011, the Third Circuit upheld the FCC’s local television ownership rules. On December 5, 2011, we joined with a number of other parties on a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari filed with the Supreme Court requesting that the Court overrule the decision of the Third Circuit and that request was denied by the Supreme Court. In a recent letter, the FCC’s staff took the position that the 2003 stay is not effective with regard to the Cunningham LMAs. Continuing to hold television stations in the same markets as the Cunningham Stations could force us to terminate or modify the LMAs with the Cunningham Stations. In addition, if Cunningham were to exercise its put rights under the acquisition and merger agreements and the LMAs, each as amended and/or restated, we may have to find a suitable third party to assume our purchase obligations because we are not permitted to purchase such stations under current FCC rules. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate such a third party or that any such third party would continue the LMAs (or any alternative arrangements) with us on substantially similar terms that are as favorable to us or at all. While we do not agree with the FCC staff’s stated position, we are presently considering modification of the LMAs, effectively converting them to JSAs and SSAs. On December 22, 2011, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in its Quadrennial Review of the Multiple Ownership Rules and is considering changes to the FCC’s rules regarding broadcast-newspaper cross ownership restrictions, the possible elimination of rules restricting the ownership of radio and TV in the same market, the potential attribution of TV JSAs and SSAs meaning potentially making JSAs and SSAs count as an ownership interest in a multiple ownership analysis and other possible revisions to the local radio and TV ownership limitations or exceptions that would allow for waivers of the limits in defined circumstances. Press and other reports indicate that the FCC is actively considering implementing new rules which would cause a station to be attributable to the owner of another station in the market which sells more than 15 percent of the advertising on the first station. Reports indicate that the FCC does not intend to “grandfather” existing JSAs, but rather to require parties to come into compliance with these new rules within a period of between eighteen months and two years. If the FCC were to enact such a rule we would no longer be able to enter into new transactions utilizing JSAs in the way we have done historically and would need to either terminate our existing JSAs or take 33 Table of Contents action to modify the terms of our JSAs in a manner which complies with any such new rules. There can be no such assurance that the FCC will take the actions reported to be being considered and we cannot predict with any certainty the impact such rules might have on us until such rules are actually enacted. Changes in rules on local marketing agreements Certain of our stations have entered into what have commonly been referred to as local marketing agreements or LMAs. One typical type of LMA is a programming agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the licensee of one station programs substantial portions of the broadcast day and sells advertising time during such programming segments on the other licensee’s station subject to the ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter licensee. We believe these arrangements allow us to reduce our operating expenses and enhance profitability. In 1999, the FCC established a new local television ownership rule and decided to attribute LMAs for ownership purposes. It grandfathered our LMAs that were entered into prior to November 5, 1996, permitting the applicable stations to continue operations pursuant to the LMAs until the conclusion of the FCC’s 2004 biennial review. The FCC stated it would conduct a case-by-case review of grandfathered LMAs and assess the appropriateness of extending the grandfathering periods. Subsequently, the FCC invited comments as to whether, instead of beginning the review of the grandfathered LMAs in 2004, it should do so in 2006. The FCC did not initiate any review of grandfathered LMAs in 2004 or as part of its 2006 quadrennial review. We do not know when, or if, the FCC will conduct any such review of grandfathered LMAs. With respect to LMAs executed on or after November 5, 1996, the FCC required that parties come into compliance with the 1999 local television ownership rule by August 6, 2001. We challenged the 1999 local television ownership rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and that court stayed the enforcement of the divestiture of the post-November 5, 1996 LMAs. In 2002, the D.C. Circuit ruled that the 1999 local television ownership rule was arbitrary and capricious and remanded the rule to the FCC. Currently, three of our LMAs are grandfathered under the local television ownership rule because they were entered into prior to November 5, 1996 and the remainder are subject to the stay imposed by the D.C. Circuit. If the FCC were to eliminate the grandfathering of these three LMAs, or the D.C. Circuit were to lift its stay, we would have to terminate or modify these LMAs. In connection with our pending acquisition of the Allbritton station in Charleston, the FCC has taken the position that the stay granted by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals allowing the continuation of an LMA between us and Cunningham relating to WTAT-TV in that market is no longer effective. In response to this, we are currently restructuring the relationship with WTAT in order to comply with current ownership rules in the absence of such a stay. Such restructuring will include a JSA rather than an LMA and further action may subsequently be required as a result of any action the FCC takes with respect to JSAs. In 2003, the FCC revised its ownership rules, including the local television ownership rule. The effective date of the 2003 ownership rules was stayed by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and the rules were remanded to the FCC. Because the effective date of the 2003 ownership rules had been stayed and, in connection with the adoption of those rules, the FCC concluded the 1999 rules could not be justified as necessary in the public interest, we took the position that an issue exists regarding whether the FCC has any current legal right to enforce any rules prohibiting the acquisition of television stations. Several parties, including us, filed petitions with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking review of the Third Circuit decision, but the Supreme Court denied the petitions in June 2005. On November 15, 1999, we entered into a plan and agreement of merger to acquire through merger WMYA-TV in Anderson, South Carolina from Cunningham, but that transaction was denied by the FCC. In light of the change in the 2003 ownership rules, we filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC and amended our application to acquire the license of WMYA-TV. We also filed applications in November 2003 to acquire the license assets of, at the time, the remaining five Cunningham stations: WRGT-TV, Dayton, Ohio; WTAT-TV, Charleston, South Carolina; WVAH-TV, Charleston, West Virginia; WNUV-TV, Baltimore, Maryland; and WTTE-TV, Columbus, Ohio. The Rainbow / PUSH Coalition (Rainbow / PUSH) filed a petition to deny these five applications and to revoke all of our licenses on the grounds that such acquisition would violate the local television ownership rules. The FCC dismissed our applications in light of the stay of the 2003 ownership rules and also denied the Rainbow / PUSH petition. Rainbow / PUSH filed a petition for reconsideration of that denial and we filed an application for review of the dismissal. In 2005, we filed a petition with the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit requesting that the Court direct the FCC to take final action on our applications, but that petition was dismissed. On January 6, 2006, we submitted a motion to the FCC requesting that it take final action on our applications. Both the applications and the associated petition to deny are still pending. We believe the Rainbow / PUSH petition is without merit. On February 8, 2008, we filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit requesting that the Court direct the FCC to take final action on these applications and cease its use of the 1999 local television ownership rule that it re-adopted as the permanent rule in 2008. In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit transferred the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and we filed a petition with the D.C. Circuit challenging that decision, which was denied. We also filed with the Ninth Circuit a motion to transfer that case back to the D.C. Circuit. In November 2008, the Ninth Circuit consolidated our petition seeking final FCC action on our applications with the petitions challenging the FCC’s 34 Table of Contents current ownership rules and transferred the proceedings to the Third Circuit. In December 2008, we agreed voluntarily with the parties to the proceeding to dismiss the petition seeking final FCC action on the applications. In addition, if Cunningham were to exercise its put rights under the acquisition and merger agreements and the LMAs, each as amended and/or restated, we may have to find a suitable third party to assume our purchase obligations because we are not permitted to purchase such stations under current FCC rules. In the event of any such assignments, new applications will have to be filed to reflect the third party as the applicant. In that event, upon the closing of the assignment to such third party, our appeals relating to the 1999 local television ownership rules with respect to our three non-grandfathered LMAs may be moot and the three non-grandfathered LMAs may be terminated. Use of outsourcing agreements In addition to our LMAs, we have entered into outsourcing agreements whereby twenty-six stations (and may seek opportunities for additional) provide or are provided various non-programming related services such as sales, operational and managerial services to or by other stations within the same markets. Pursuant to these agreements, twenty-three of our stations currently provide services to one or more stations in each’s respective market and another party provides services to three of our stations. For additional information, refer to Markets and Stations under the Television Broadcasting section. We believe this structure allows stations to achieve operational efficiencies and economies of scale, which should otherwise improve broadcast cash flow and competitive positions. While television JSAs are not currently “attributable” under the FCC rules, on August 2, 2004, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comments on its tentative conclusion that JSAs should be attributable. The FCC is also considering the attribution of JSAs as part of its 2010 Quadrennial Regulatory Review of its broadcast ownership rules, released on December 22, 2011, although it is widely reported that the FCC will not take action on the 2010 Quadrennial proceeding and will merge it with the 2014 Quadrennial proceeding. Press and other reports indicate that the FCC is actively considering implementing new rules which would cause a station to be attributable to the owner of another station in the market which sells more than 15 percent of the advertising on the first station. Reports indicate that the FCC does not intend to “grandfather” existing JSAs, but rather to require parties to come into compliance with these new rules within a period of between eighteen months and two years. If the FCC were to enact such a rule we would no longer be able to enter into new transactions utilizing JSAs in the way we have done historically and would need to either terminate our existing JSAs or take action to modify the terms of our JSAs in a manner which complies with any such new rules. There can be no such assurance that the FCC will take the actions reported to be being considered and we cannot predict with any certainty the impact such rules might have on us until such rules are actually enacted. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, nor can we predict how any changes, together with possible changes to the ownership rules, would apply to our existing outsourcing agreements. If the FCC were to determine that our outsourcing arrangements were “attributable,” we would have to terminate or restructure such arrangements on terms that may not be as advantageous to us as the current arrangements. If we are required to terminate or modify our LMAs/JSAs, our business could be affected in the following ways: · Loss of revenues. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing arrangements, we would lose some or all of the revenues generated from those arrangements. We would lose revenue because we will have less demographic options, a smaller audience distribution and lower revenue share to offer to advertisers. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we generated $118.2 million of net revenue from our 13 LMAs. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we earned $36.0 million of revenue from JSAs. · Increased costs. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing arrangements, our cost structure would increase as we would potentially lose significant operating synergies and we may also need to add new employees. With termination of LMAs, we likely would incur increased programming costs because we will be competing with the separately owned station for syndicated programming. · Losses on investments. As part of certain of our arrangements, we own the non-license assets used by the stations with which we have arrangements. If certain of these arrangements are no longer permitted, we would be forced to sell these assets, restructure our agreements or find another use for them. If this happens, the market for such assets may not be as good as when we purchased them and, therefore, we cannot be certain of a favorable return on our original investments. · Termination penalties. If the FCC requires us to modify or terminate existing arrangements before the terms of the arrangements expire, or under certain circumstances, we elect not to extend the terms of the arrangements, we may be forced to pay termination penalties under the terms of certain of our arrangements. Any such termination penalties could be material. · Alternative arrangements. If the FCC requires us to terminate the existing arrangements, we may enter into one or more alternative arrangements. Any such arrangements may be on terms that are less beneficial to us than the existing arrangements. 35 Table of Contents Failure of owner / licensee to exercise control The FCC requires the owner / licensee of a station to maintain independent control over the programming and operations of the station. As a result, the owners / licensees of those stations with which we have LMAs or outsourcing agreements can exert their control in ways that may be counter to our interests, including the right to preempt or terminate programming in certain instances. The preemption and termination rights cause some uncertainty as to whether we will be able to air all of the programming that we have purchased under our LMAs and therefore, uncertainty about the advertising revenue that we will receive from such programming. In addition, if the FCC determines that the owner / licensee is not exercising sufficient control, it may penalize the owner licensee by a fine, revocation of the license for the station or a denial of the renewal of that license. Any one of these scenarios, especially the revocation of or denial of renewal of a license, might result in a reduction of our cash flow and an increase in our operating costs or margins. In addition, penalties might also affect our qualifications to hold FCC licenses, putting our own licenses at risk. The pendency and indeterminacy of the outcome of these ownership rules, which may limit our ability to provide services to additional or existing stations pursuant to licenses, LMAs, outsourcing agreements or otherwise, expose us to a certain amount of volatility, particularly if the outcomes are adverse to us. Further, resolution of these ownership rules has been and will likely continue to be a cost burden and a distraction to our management and the continued absence of a resolution may have a negative effect on our business. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations potentially adversely impacting our ability to compete. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan contemplates the voluntary reallocation of spectrum from broadcasters for other purposes which may include wireless broadband. On November 30, 2010, the FCC initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that seeks comments on three methods that would permit up to 120 MHz of television spectrum to be reallocated for wireless broadband use: (a) encouraging broadcasters “voluntarily” to return 120 MHz of spectrum to be auctioned for wireless broadband service, with some currently unknown portion of the proceeds to be paid to broadcasters; (b) adoption of rules to encourage two or more digital television stations to share the same 6 MHz channel, thus lessening the spectrum occupied by each station; and (c) to adopt new engineering rules which would make VHF channels more desirable for digital television operations, thus encouraging stations to move from their current UHF channels into the VHF band, freeing UHF spectrum for wireless broadband use. This initiative raises a number of issues that could impact the broadcast industry. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or, if adopted, the form of such final rules or whether they would have an adverse impact on our ability to compete. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the FCC might adopt even more stringent requirements, or incentives to abandon current spectrum, if its initiatives are adopted but do have the desired result in freeing what the agency deems sufficient spectrum for wireless broadband use. Congress recently passed legislation providing the FCC with authority to conduct so-called “incentive auctions” to begin the process of auctioning and repurposing broadcast television spectrum for mobile broadband use. Incentive auction authority allows the FCC to share the proceeds of spectrum auctions with incumbent television station licensees who give up their licenses (or in some cases, move to a different channel) to facilitate spectrum auctions. The legislation includes specific provisions governing incentive auctions of spectrum that is used by television broadcasters today. The upper UHF bands allocated to television broadcasting will likely be used to provide service to mobile devices and are widely expected to draw bids from wireless operators at auction. The legislation contemplates that the FCC will encourage broadcasters to tender their licenses for auction. Using models it has been developing for the last two years (and will continue to develop) the FCC would then “repack” non-tendering broadcasters into the lower portion of the UHF band auction new “flexible use” wireless licenses in the upper portion of the UHF band. As a result of these changes, new companies will likely be able to enter our markets to compete with us. The proposals for television stations to participate in the incentive auctions are voluntary and at this time we have not decided whether the company will participate on behalf of any of its stations. On September 28, 2012, the FCC voted in favor of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that launches the incentive auction process to clear a portion of the television band that will make way for mobile broadband use. We cannot predict the final outcome of this proceeding. Competition from other broadcasters or other content providers and changes in technology may cause a reduction in our advertising revenues and/or an increase in our operating costs. New technology and the subdivision of markets Cable providers, direct broadcast satellite companies and telecommunication companies are developing new technology that allows them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television industry into ever more specialized niche markets. Competitors who target programming to such sharply defined markets may gain an advantage over us for television 36 Table of Contents advertising revenues. The decreased cost of creating channels may also encourage new competitors to enter our markets and compete with us for advertising revenue. In addition, technologies that allow viewers to digitally record, store and play back television programming may decrease viewership of commercials as recorded by media measurement services such as Nielsen Media Research and, as a result, lower our advertising revenues. The current ratings provided by Nielsen for use by broadcast stations are limited to live viewing Digital Video Recording playback and give broadcasters no credit whatsoever for viewing that occurs on a delayed basis after the original air date. However, the effects of new ratings system technologies, including “people meters” and “set-top boxes,” and the ability of such technologies to be a reliable standard that can be used by advertisers is currently unknown. In 2010, the Media Rating Council, an independent organization that monitors rating services, revoked Nielsen’s accreditation in the 154 markets it measures ratings exclusively by its diary methodology. Approximately 96 of our stations are diary only markets as of March 1, 2014. Since digital television technology allows broadcasting of multiple channels within the additional allocated spectrum, this technology could expose us to additional competition from programming alternatives. In addition, technological advancements and the resulting increase in programming alternatives, such as cable television, direct broadcast Satellite systems, pay-per-view, home video and entertainment systems, video-on-demand, mobile video and the Internet have also created new types of competition to television broadcast stations and will increase competition for household audiences and advertisers. We cannot provide any assurances that we will remain competitive with these developing technologies. Types of competitors We also face competition from rivals that may have greater resources than we have. These include: · other local free over-the-air broadcast television and radio stations; · telecommunication companies; · cable and satellite system operators; · print media providers such as newspapers, direct mail and periodicals; · internet search engines, internet service providers and websites; and · other emerging technologies including mobile television. Deregulation The Telecommunications Act of 1996 and subsequent actions by the FCC and the courts have removed some limits on station ownership, allowing telephone, cable and some other companies to provide video services in competition with us. In addition, the FCC has reallocated and auctioned off a portion of the spectrum for new services including fixed and mobile wireless services and digital broadcast services. As a result of these changes, new companies are able to enter our markets and compete with us. We could be adversely affected by labor disputes and legislation and other union activity. The cost of producing and distributing entertainment programming has increased substantially in recent years due to, among other things, the increasing demands of creative talent and industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. Although we generally purchase programming content from others rather than produce such content ourselves, our program suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and on-air and other talent, trade employees and others, some of whom are subject to these collective bargaining agreements. Also, as of March 1, 2014, approximately 556 of our employees, including certain new employees at the stations we acquired during 2013, are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. If we or our program suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Failure to renew these agreements, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect our business by causing, among other things, delays in production that lead to declining viewers, a significant disruption of operations and reductions in the profit margins of our programming and the amounts we can charge advertisers for time. Our stations also broadcast certain professional sporting events, including NBA basketball games, MLB baseball games, NFL football games, and other sporting events, and our viewership may be adversely affected by player strikes or lockouts, which could adversely affect our advertising revenues and results of operations. Further, any changes in the existing labor laws, including the possible enactment of the Employee Free Choice Act, may further the realization of the foregoing risks. Unrelated third parties may bring claims against us based on the nature and content of information posted on websites maintained by us. We host internet services that enable individuals to exchange information, generate content, comment on our content, and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based 37 Table of Contents on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Our defense of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. Costs of complying with changes in governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict what other governmental laws or regulations will be enacted in the future, how future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or how future laws or regulations will affect us. Compliance with new laws or regulations, including proposed legislation to address climate change, or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require us to incur significant expenditures or impose significant restrictions on us and could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can affect reported earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, share-based compensation and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and results of operations. Terrorism or armed conflict domestically or abroad may negatively impact our advertising revenues and results of operations. Future conflicts, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may have a similar effect. The commencement of the war in Iraq in 2002 and activities in Afghanistan resulted in a reduction of advertising revenues as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and/or general economic uncertainty. If the United States becomes engaged in similar conflicts in the future, there may be a similar adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, any terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may have a similar negative effect on our business or results of operations. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corruption data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 