Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information contained in this report, the risks described below. Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount that we can borrow under our credit facility could be limited by changing expectations of future prices. In addition, lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather conditions; • changes in demand as a result of changes in price; • the price of foreign imports; • world-wide economic conditions; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and • domestic and foreign governmental regulations. To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must continue to develop existing reserves and locate or acquire new oil and gas reserves. We accomplish this through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost. In addition, these activities require substantial capital expenditures. Our 2008 capital budget exceeds currently expected cash flow from operations and cash and short-term investments on hand at year end 2007 by approximately $260 million. In the past, we often have increased our capital budget during the year as a result of acquisitions or successful drilling. We anticipate that the shortfall will be made up with cash and short-term investments on hand and borrowings under our credit arrangements. Lower oil and gas prices or unexpected operating constraints or production difficulties will decrease cash flow from operations and could limit our ability to borrow under our credit arrangements. We also currently expect that our 2009 capital budget will exceed expected cash flow from operations. Our ability to fund attractive acquisition opportunities and future capital programs may be dependent on our ability to access capital markets. Further or continued volatility in the credit markets could adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Because all of our credit arrangements provide for variable interest rates, higher interest rates would also reduce cash flow. For a detailed discussion of our credit arrangements and liquidity, please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this report. Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases. We generally hedge a substantial, but varying, portion of our anticipated future oil and natural gas production for the next 12-24 months as part of our risk management program. In addition, we may utilize basis contracts to hedge the differential between the NYMEX Henry Hub posted prices for natural gas and those of our physical pricing points. In the case of acquisitions, we may hedge acquired production for a longer period. We use hedging to reduce price volatility, help ensure that we have adequate cash flow to fund our capital programs and manage price risks and returns on some of our acquisitions and drilling programs. While the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies 9 Table of Contents on interpretations of available geologic, geophysic, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires a number of economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of our proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at year-end. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs we used. In addition, actual production rates for future periods may vary significantly from the rates assumed in the calculation. If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take writedowns. We may be required to writedown the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties when oil and gas prices decrease or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs or deterioration in our exploitation results. We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (excluding the effect of our hedging contracts that are not designated for hedge accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our results. The net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties is computed on a country-by-country basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could be unaffected. Once recorded, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas prices increase. Production growth at Monument Butte may be limited by the demand for our crude oil production. The crude oil produced in the Uinta Basin is known as “black wax” because it has a higher paraffin content than crude oil found in most other major North American basins. Due to its waxy composition, the oil is transported by truck to refiners in the Salt Lake City area. These refiners have limited capacity to refine this type of crude. We currently have agreements in place with four area refiners that secure base load capacity of approximately 14,000 BOPD through 2008 and 12,500 BOPD through 2009. We are working with the refiners to secure additional capacity to allow for continued production growth. Without additional refining capacity, our ability to increase production from the field may be limited. 10 Table of Contents Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. Our continued drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for these professionals is extremely intense. We are likely to continue to experience increased costs to attract and retain these professionals. Competition for available oil and gas properties is extremely intense. Our competitors include major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies and financial buyers. Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse resources than we do. Recently, higher commodity prices and stiff competition for acquisitions have significantly increased the cost of available properties. We may be unable to obtain the drilling rigs or support services necessary for our offshore drilling and development programs in a timely manner or at acceptable rates. In periods of increased drilling activity resulting from high commodity prices, demand exceeds availability for offshore drilling rigs, drilling vessels, dive boats, supply boats and experienced personnel. The market for oilfield services is currently very competitive. This may lead to difficulty and delays in consistently obtaining services and equipment from vendors, obtaining drilling rigs and other equipment at acceptable rates, and scheduling equipment fabrication at factories and fabrication yards. This, in turn, may lead to projects being delayed or increased costs. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections will not likely be performed on every well or facility, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. Drilling is a high-risk activity. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, the drilling of wells involves the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; • adverse weather conditions; • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; • equipment failures or accidents; and 11 Table of Contents • compliance with governmental requirements. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us against all these risks. These risks include: • fires and explosions; • blow-outs; • uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • pipeline ruptures; • discharges of toxic gases; and • build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil and gas reservoirs; • pollution and other environmental damage; • investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Some of our offshore operations are dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. Necessary infrastructures may be temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or may not be available to us in the future. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not insurable. Exploration in deepwater may involve significant financial risks. Much of the deepwater play lacks the physical and oilfield service infrastructure necessary for production. As a result, development of a deepwater discovery may be a lengthy process and require substantial capital investment. Because of their size, we may not serve as the operator of significant projects in which we invest. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over operations related to these projects or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these deepwater projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital. In addition, there is limited availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and development and the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state, 12 Table of Contents local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; • reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and state leases; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages. We also could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have risks associated with our foreign operations. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States is subject to the various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include: • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and quasi-governmental agencies; • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; • labor problems; and • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations also may be adversely affected by the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and some of our arrangements with employees contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of our company. Our stockholder rights plan, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may make it more difficult to effect a change of control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. In addition, our change of control severance plan and agreements, our omnibus stock plans and our incentive compensation plan contain provisions that provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options, upon a change of control. These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or reduce the price our stockholders receive in an acquisition of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 