Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to fluctuations in the price of lumber. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of commodity lumber products from primary producers (the “Lumber Market”). A variety of factors over which we have no control, including government regulations, environmental regulations, weather conditions, economic conditions, and natural disasters, impact the cost of lumber products and our selling prices. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations, substantial, prolonged trends in lumber prices can negatively affect our sales volume, our gross margins, and our profitability. We anticipate that these fluctuations will continue in the future. Our growth may be limited by the markets we serve. Our sales growth is dependent, in part, upon the growth of the markets we serve. If our markets do not achieve anticipated growth, or if we fail to maintain our market share, financial results could be impaired. Our ability to achieve sales and margin goals, particularly on sales to the site-built construction market, is impacted by housing starts. If housing starts decline significantly, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Single-family housing starts fell approximately 29% in 2007 compared to 2006. We are witnessing consolidation by our customers in each of the markets we serve. These consolidations will result in a larger portion of our sales being made to some customers and may limit the customer base we are able to serve. 7 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with one customer. Our sales to The Home Depot comprised 26% of our total sales in 2007, 22% in 2006, and 22% in 2005. Our growth may be limited by our ability to make successful acquisitions. A key component of our growth strategy is to complete business combinations. Business combinations involve inherent risks, including assimilation and successfully managing growth. While we conduct extensive due diligence and have taken steps to ensure successful assimilation, factors beyond our control could influence the results of these acquisitions. We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we are at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental regulations. If additional laws and regulations are enacted in the future, which restrict our ability to manufacture and market our products, including our treated lumber products, it could adversely affect our sales and profits. If existing laws are interpreted differently, it could also increase our financial costs. Seasonality and weather conditions could adversely affect us. Some aspects of our business are seasonal in nature and results of operations vary from quarter to quarter. Our treated lumber and outdoor specialty products, such as fencing, decking, and lattice, experience the greatest seasonal effects. Sales of treated lumber, primarily consisting of Southern Yellow Pine, also experience the greatest Lumber Market risk (see “Historical Lumber Prices” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which is presented under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference). Treated lumber sales are generally at their highest levels between April and August. This sales peak, combined with capacity constraints in the wood treatment process, requires us to build our inventory of treated lumber throughout the winter and spring. (This also has an impact on our receivables balances, which tend to be significantly higher at the end of the second and third quarters.) Because sales prices of treated lumber products may be indexed to the Lumber Market at the time they are shipped, our profits can be negatively affected by prolonged declines in the Lumber Market during our primary selling season. To mitigate this risk, consignment inventory programs are negotiated with certain vendors that are intended to decrease our exposure to the Lumber Market by correlating the purchase price of the material with the related sell price to the customer. These programs include those materials which are most susceptible to adverse changes in the Lumber Market. The majority of our products are used or installed in outdoor construction activities; therefore, short-term sales volume, our gross margins, and our profits can be negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly in our first and fourth quarters. In addition, adverse weather conditions can negatively impact our productivity and costs per unit. 8 Table of Contents New preservatives will be developed to treat our products. The manufacturers of preservatives continue to develop new preservatives. All of our wood preservation facilities utilize either Amine Copper Quaternary (“ACQ”), ProWood® Micro or borates. While we believe treated products are reasonably priced relative to alternative products such as composites or vinyl, consumer acceptance may be impacted which would in turn affect our future operating results. In addition, new preservatives could increase our cost of treating products in the future. Market conditions for the supply of certain lumber products and inbound transportation may be limited. These conditions, which occur on occasion, have resulted in difficulties procuring desired quantities and receiving orders on a timely basis for all industry participants. We are not certain how these conditions may impact our short-term sales volumes and profitability. However, we attempt to mitigate the risks of these conditions by: • Our pricing practices (see “Impact of the Lumber Market on Our Operating Results” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which is presented under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference); • Leveraging our size with mill and transportation suppliers to ensure they achieve supply and service requirements; • Increasing our utilization of consigned inventory programs with mills; and • Expanding our supply base of dedicated carriers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 