Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to regional, national and global economic conditions. The unprecedented decline in economics throughout the United States could depress demand for our products further. A sustained downturn in our markets could adversely impact our credit agreements. As of December 27, 2008, excluding various industrial revenue bond and lease obligations, we had approximately $85 million of outstanding indebtedness, all of which are unsecured, comprised of the following: • $15 million senior notes due December 2009 • $40 million senior notes due December 2012 • $30 million revolving credit facility due February 2012 In addition, we had approximately $32.2 million outstanding under letters of credit, which principally relate to certain insurance contracts and industrial revenue bond obligations. Amounts outstanding under such letters reduced the availability under our $300 million revolving credit facility due February 2012. As noted elsewhere in this report, we have been experiencing a significant deterioration in the various markets in which we compete. A sustained and continued, significant deterioration in these markets may adversely impact our ability to meet certain of our covenants under one or more of our existing obligations. Management continues to evaluate what, if any, action or actions may be available or necessary to maintain compliance with these various covenants or, if necessary, refinance or replace these obligations. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to fluctuations in the price of lumber. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of commodity lumber products from primary producers (the “Lumber Market”). A variety of factors over which we have no control, including government regulations, environmental regulations, weather conditions, economic conditions, and natural disasters, impact the cost of lumber products and our selling prices. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations, substantial, prolonged trends in lumber prices can negatively affect our sales volume, our gross margins, and our profitability. We anticipate that these fluctuations will continue in the future. Our growth may be limited by the markets we serve. Our sales growth is dependent, in part, upon the growth of the markets we serve. If our markets do not achieve anticipated growth, or if we fail to maintain our market share, financial results could be impaired. Our ability to achieve sales and margin goals, particularly on sales to the site-built construction market, is impacted by housing starts. If housing starts decline significantly, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Single-family housing starts fell approximately 41% in 2008 compared to 2007. Single-family housing starts are predicted to decline even further in 2009. The manufactured housing market is constricted due in part to lack of available long-term financing and lack of credit-worth buyers. While current government initiatives are designed to improve the flow of capital to this market, the availability and restrictions of its use could lead to further depressed demand. We are witnessing consolidation by our customers in each of the markets we serve. These consolidations will result in a larger portion of our sales being made to some customers and may limit the customer base we are able to serve. A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with one customer. Our sales to The Home Depot comprised 27% of our total sales in 2008, 26% in 2007, and 22% in 2006. Current economic and credit market conditions have increased the risk that we may not collect a greater percentage of our receivables. Economic and credit conditions may significantly impact our bad debt expense. We continue to monitor our customer’s credit profiles carefully and make changes in our terms when necessary in response to this heightened risk. Our growth may be limited by our ability to make successful acquisitions. A key component of our growth strategy is to complete business combinations. Business combinations involve inherent risks, including assimilation and successfully managing growth. While we conduct extensive due diligence and have taken steps to ensure successful assimilation, factors beyond our control could influence the results of these acquisitions. 8 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we are at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental regulations. If additional laws and regulations are enacted in the future, which restrict our ability to manufacture and market our products, including our treated lumber products, it could adversely affect our sales and profits. If existing laws are interpreted differently, it could also increase our financial costs. If laws regarding carbon emission, more expensive energy choices, or taxes and fees on resource use are enacted, it could significantly increase our costs of operation, raise costs to our customers, and create a further barrier to demand for United States manufactured products. Seasonality and weather conditions could adversely affect us. Some aspects of our business are seasonal in nature and results of operations vary from quarter to quarter. Our treated lumber and outdoor specialty products, such as fencing, decking, and lattice, experience the greatest seasonal effects. Sales of treated lumber, primarily consisting of Southern Yellow Pine, also experience the greatest Lumber Market risk (see “Historical Lumber Prices” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which is presented under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference). Treated lumber sales are generally at their highest levels between April and August. This sales peak, combined with capacity constraints in the wood treatment process, requires us to build our inventory of treated lumber throughout the winter and spring. (This also has an impact on our receivables balances, which tend to be significantly higher at the end of the second and third quarters.) Because sales prices of treated lumber products may be indexed to the Lumber Market at the time they are shipped, our profits can be negatively affected by prolonged declines in the Lumber Market during our primary selling season. To mitigate this risk, consignment inventory programs are negotiated with certain vendors that are intended to decrease our exposure to the Lumber Market by correlating the purchase price of the material with the related sell price to the customer. These programs include those materials which are most susceptible to adverse changes in the Lumber Market. The majority of our products are used or installed in outdoor construction activities; therefore, short-term sales volume, our gross margins, and our profits can be negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly in our first and fourth quarters. In addition, adverse weather conditions can negatively impact our productivity and costs per unit. Inbound and outbound transportation costs represent a significant part of our cost structure. A rapid and prolonged increase in fuel prices will significantly increase our costs. While we attempt to pass these costs along to our customers, there can be no assurance that they would agree to these price increases. New preservatives will be developed to treat our products. The manufacturers of preservatives continue to develop new preservatives. All of our wood preservation facilities utilize either Amine Copper Quaternary (“ACQ”), ProWood® Micro or borates. While we believe treated products are reasonably priced relative to alternative products such as composites or vinyl, consumer acceptance may be impacted which would in turn affect our future operating results. In addition, new preservatives could increase our cost of treating products in the future. 9 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 