Item 1A. Risk Factors A number of factors affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of the most significant factors that might cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. We are subject to risks inherent in owning real estate investments. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Our ability to make dividend distributions, as well as the amount or timing of any distribution, may be adversely affected by the economic climate, business conditions and certain local conditions including: ● oversupply of space or reduced demand for rental space and newly developed properties; ● the attractiveness of our properties compared to other retail space; ● our ability to provide adequate maintenance to our properties; and ● fluctuations in real estate taxes, insurance and other operating costs. 6 Table of Contents Applicable laws, including tax laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing, may adversely affect our income and real estate values. In addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell our properties quickly may be limited. We cannot be sure that we will be able to lease space as tenants move out or as to the rents we may be able to charge new tenants entering such space. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We maintain broad property and loss of income insurance on our consolidated real estate assets as well as those held in joint ventures in which we have an investment interest. In addition to third-party liability, property, earthquake and flood insurance, we also carry insurance for windstorm risks on our properties located in Florida. Even insured losses could result in a serious disruption to our business and reduce or delay our receipt of revenue. Additionally, hurricane and storm damage in the state of Florida could exceed our windstorm coverage for our properties in that state or cause the Company to incur a large deductible. Lastly, there are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the asset(s). If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the asset(s). Our property insurance policies include coverage for acts of terrorism by foreign or domestic agents. The United States government provides reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (the “Act”) which extended the effectiveness of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005. The Act is designed to cover losses from declared terrorism events that are equal to or exceed $100 million. However, our premiums for terrorism insurance could continue to rise despite the coverage of the Act. Moreover, certain criminal or terrorist-like acts that may be committed against our properties or real estate assets may not constitute terrorist acts under the Act or may cause losses that are less than the triggering amount for coverage under the Act. The United States government could also terminate its reinsurance of these types of perils, thus increasing the risk of uninsured exposure to the Company. We rely on major tenants. At December 31, 2008, our three largest tenants were Gap, Inc., Limited Brands, Inc., and Sterling, Inc., representing 3.2%, 2.4% and 2.1% of our annualized minimum rents, respectively. No other tenant represented more than 2.0% of the aggregate annualized minimum rents of our properties as of such date. Our financial position and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, insolvency, or general downturn in the business of any such tenant, or in the event any such tenant does not renew a number of its leases as they expire. Bankruptcy of our tenants or downturns in our tenants’ businesses may reduce our cash flow. Since we derive almost all of our income from rental payments and other tenant charges, our cash available for distribution would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us, or if we were unable to lease vacant space in our properties on economically favorable terms. A tenant may seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws which could result in the termination of its lease causing a reduction in our cash available for distribution. Furthermore, certain of our tenants, including anchor tenants, hold the right under their lease(s) to terminate their lease(s) or reduce their rental rate if certain occupancy conditions are not met, if certain anchor tenants close, if certain sales levels or profit margins are not achieved, or if an exclusive use provision is violated, which all could be triggered in the event of one or more tenant bankruptcies. A significant increase in the number of tenant bankruptcies, particularly amongst anchor tenants, may make it more difficult for us to lease the remainder of the property or properties in which the bankrupt tenant operates and adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. Prolonged instability or volatility in the U.S. economy may adversely impact consumer spending and therefore our operating results. A sustained downturn in the U.S. economy and reduced consumer spending could impact our tenants’ ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity or other reasons and therefore decrease the revenue generated by our properties or the value of our properties. Our ability to lease space and negotiate and maintain favorable rents could also be negatively impacted by a prolonged recession in the U.S. economy. Moreover, the demand for leasing space in our existing shopping centers as well as our development properties could also significantly decline during a significant downturn in the U.S. economy which could result in a decline in our occupancy percentage and reduction in rental revenues. 7 Table of Contents We face significant competition that may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with many commercial developers, real estate companies and major retailers. Some of these entities develop or own malls, value-oriented retail properties, and community shopping centers with whom we compete for tenants. We face competition for prime locations and for tenants. New regional malls or other retail shopping centers with more convenient locations or better rents may attract tenants or cause them to seek more favorable lease terms at or prior to renewal. Retailers at our properties may face increasing competition from other retailers, e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, direct mail, telemarketing and home shopping networks, all of which could affect their ability to pay rent or desire to occupy one or more of our properties. The failure to fully recover cost reimbursements for CAM, taxes and insurance from tenants could adversely affect our operating results. The computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for CAM, insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments including interpretation of terms and other tenant lease provisions. Most tenants make monthly fixed payments of CAM, real estate taxes and other cost reimbursement items. After the end of the calendar year, we compute each tenant’s final cost reimbursements and issue a bill or credit for the full amount, after considering amounts paid by the tenants during the year. The billed amounts could be disputed by the tenant(s) or become the subject of a tenant audit. Final adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2008 have not yet been determined. At December 31, 2008, we had recorded in accounts receivables $1.8 million of costs expected to be recovered from tenants during the first six months of 2009. There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially all of this amount. The results of operations for our properties depend on the economic conditions of the regions of the United States in which they are located. Our results of operations and distributions to you will generally be subject to economic conditions in the regions in which our properties are located. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 33% of annualized minimum rents came from our properties located in Ohio. We may be unable to successfully redevelop, develop or operate such properties. As a result of economic and other conditions and required government approvals, development projects may not be pursued or may be completed later or with higher costs than anticipated. In the event of an unsuccessful development project, our loss could exceed our investment in the project. Development activities involve significant risks, including: ● the expenditure of funds on and devotion of time to projects which may not come to fruition; ● increased construction costs that may make the project economically unattractive; ● an inability to obtain construction financing and permanent financing on favorable terms; and ● occupancy rates and rents not sufficient to make a project profitable. We could incur significant costs related to environmental issues. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of on real property, may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating these substances on or under the property. In connection with the ownership or operation of our properties, we could be liable for such costs, which could be substantial and even exceed the value of such property or the value of our aggregate assets. We could incur such costs or be liable for such costs during a period after we dispose of or transfer a property. The failure to remediate toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent any of our properties or to borrow funds. In addition, environmental laws may require us to expend substantial sums in order to use our properties or operate our business. We have established a contingency reserve for one environmental matter as noted in Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements. 8 Table of Contents Our assets may be subject to impairment charges that may materially affect our financial results. We evaluate our real estate assets and other assets for impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of our investment in the asset is not assured. This evaluation is conducted periodically, but no less frequently than quarterly. Our determination of whether a particular held-for-use asset is impaired is based upon the undiscounted projected cash flows used for the impairment analysis and our determination of the asset’s estimated fair value, that in turn are based upon our plans for the respective asset and our views of market and economic conditions. With respect to assets held-for-sale, our determination of whether such an asset is impaired is based upon market and economic conditions. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, then we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made. Furthermore, changes in estimated future cash flows due to a change in our plans or views of market and economic conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment losses for already impaired assets, which, under the applicable accounting guidance, could be substantial. We may incur significant costs of complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. We may be required to expend significant sums of money to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“ADA”), and other federal and local laws in order for our properties to meet requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. GRT believes that it has qualified as a REIT under the Code since 1994, but cannot be sure that it will remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within GRT’s control that may impact GRT’s ability to qualify as a REIT under the Code. In addition, GRT cannot be sure that new laws, regulations and judicial decisions will not significantly change the tax laws relating to REITs, or the federal income tax consequences of REIT qualification. If GRT fails to qualify as a REIT, it will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates. Additionally, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, GRT will also be disqualified from electing to be treated as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification is lost, thereby reducing net earnings available for investment or distribution to you because of the additional tax liability imposed for the year or years involved. Lastly, GRT would no longer be required by the Code to make any dividend distributions as a condition to REIT qualification. To the extent that dividend distributions to you may have been made in anticipation of qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of our investments to pay the applicable tax. Our ownership interests in certain partnerships and other ventures are subject to certain tax risks. Some of our property interests and other investments are made or held through entities in which we have an interest (the “Subsidiary Partnerships”). The tax risks of this type of ownership include possible challenge by the Internal Revenue Service of allocations of income and expense items which could affect the computation of our taxable income, a challenge to the status of any such entities as partnerships (as opposed to associations taxable as corporations) for federal income tax purposes, and the possibility of action being taken by tax regulators or the entities themselves could adversely affect GRT’s qualification as a REIT, for example, by requiring the sale of a property. We believe that the entities in which we have an interest have been and will be treated for tax purposes as partnerships (and not treated as associations taxable as corporations). If our ownership interest in any entity taxable as a corporation exceeded 10% (in terms of vote or value) of such entity’s outstanding securities (unless such entity were a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or a “qualified REIT subsidiary,” as those terms are defined in the Code) or the value of interest in any such entity exceeded 5% of the value of our assets, then GRT would cease to qualify as a REIT; distributions from any of these entities would be treated as dividends, to the extent of earnings and profits, and we would not be able to deduct our share of losses, if any, generated by such entity in computing our taxable income. 9 Table of Contents We may not have access to other sources of funds necessary to meet our REIT distribution requirements. In order to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income (determined by excluding any net capital gain). The amount available for distribution will be affected by a number of factors, including the operation of our properties. We have sold a number of non-core assets and intend in the future to sell additional selected non-core assets. The loss of rental income associated with our properties sold will in turn affect net income and FFO. In order to maintain REIT status, we may be required to make distributions in excess of net income and FFO. In such a case, it may be necessary to arrange for short or long term borrowings, or to issue preferred stock or other securities, to raise funds, which may not be possible. Debt financing could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.7 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, of which $497.9 million matures during 2009. As of December 31, 2008, we have borrowed $362.1 million from our $470.0 million unsecured credit facility, which matures on December 13, 2009. A number of our outstanding loans will require lump sum or “balloon” payments for the outstanding principal balance at maturity, and we may finance future investments that may be structured in the same manner. Our ability to repay indebtedness at maturity, or otherwise, may depend on our ability to either refinance such indebtedness or to sell certain properties. Additionally, our ability to repay any indebtedness accelerated upon any default may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing for such properties or to own such properties. If we are unable to repay any of our debt at or before maturity, then we may have to borrow against our properties that are not encumbered or from our credit facility, to the extent it has availability thereunder, to make such repayments. In addition, a lender could foreclose on one or more of our properties to collect its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which could reduce the value of the Common Shares and the distributions payable to you. Volatility and instability in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain new financing or refinance existing indebtedness. Global and domestic credit markets have recently experienced significant volatility and instability. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance our existing debt maturities on favorable terms or at all, and may also negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansions of existing properties as well as future acquisitions, development activities, and re-development projects. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing from smaller lending institutions or non-traditional lending entities that may be subject to greater market risk and may require us to adjust our business plan(s) or financing objectives accordingly. Weakness in the credit markets may also negatively affect the credit ratings of our securities and promote a perceived decline in the value of our properties based on deteriorating general and retail economic conditions which could adversely affect the amount and type of financing available for our properties and operations as well as the terms of such financing. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the bank participants to meet their funding commitments. Banks that are a party to our credit facility may have incurred substantial losses or be in danger of incurring substantial losses as a result of previous loans to other borrowers, a decline in the value of certain securities they hold, or their other business dealings and investments. As a result, these banks may become capital constrained, more restrictive in their lending or funding standards, or become insolvent, in which case, these banks might not be able to meet their funding commitments under our credit facility. During the fall of 2008, one of the banks under our existing credit facility failed to fund its pro rata share of funding advances to us under our credit facility. We do not expect that this bank will fund the remaining $5.7 million of its funding commitment that we had not previously drawn, or any additional commitment availability created as a result of a repayment of our portion of the outstanding balance of our credit facility. If one or more banks do not meet their funding commitments under our credit facility, then we may be unable to draw sufficient funds under our credit facility for working capital or other needs and will not be able to utilize the full capacity under the credit facility until replacement lenders are located or one or more of the remaining lenders under the credit facility agrees to fund any shortfall, both of which will be difficult to accomplish in this economic environment. Accordingly, for all practical purposes, borrowing capacity under our credit facility may be reduced by the amount of unfunded bank commitments. Our inability to access funds under our credit facility for these reasons could result in our deferring development and redevelopment projects or other capital expenditures, not being able to satisfy debt maturities as they become due, reducing or eliminating future cash dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash, or modifying significant aspects of our business strategy. 10 Table of Contents Certain of our financing arrangements contain limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur. Our credit facility is the most restrictive of our financing arrangements. Accordingly, at December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount that, based upon the restrictive covenants in the credit facility may be borrowed through financing arrangements is $124.6 million. Additional amounts could be borrowed as long as we maintain a ratio of total-debt-to-total-asset value as defined in the credit agreement that complies with the restrictive covenants of the credit facility. We would also be required to maintain certain coverage covenants on a prospective basis which could impact our ability to borrow these additional amounts. Management believes they are in compliance with all covenants under our financing arrangements at December 31, 2008. Our ability to borrow and make distributions could be adversely affected by financial covenants. Our mortgage indebtedness and credit facility impose certain financial and operating restrictions on our properties, on our secured subordinated financing, and additional financings on properties. These restrictions include restrictions on borrowings, prepayments and distributions. Additionally, our credit facility requires certain financial tests to be met, such as the total amount of recourse indebtedness to which we are permitted to take on and some of our mortgage indebtedness provides for prepayment penalties, each of which could restrict our financial flexibility. Moreover, our failure to satisfy certain financial covenants in our financing arrangements may result in a decrease in the market price of our Common Stock or preferred stock. We may not be able to extend the term of our credit facility at maturity or obtain replacement financing. We can elect to extend the maturity date of the Company's $470 million unsecured credit facility by one year. The option to extend the credit facility's term requires the Company's compliance with certain financial covenants under the credit facility. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with such covenants, our future ability to stay in compliance with the financial covenants will be based upon our operating results and other financing activities, which may be negatively impacted by financial and non-financial events. In the event that we are unable to extend the term of our credit facility or refinance the loan at maturity, we would need to repay the balance at maturity which could adversely affect our liquidity and cash reserves. Moreover, under such circumstances we may be unable to obtain replacement financing for our credit facility at the same amount, at favorable interest rates or upon favorable financing terms. This could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and distribution requirements. Our variable rate debt obligations may impede our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage, as well as adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to you. Required repayments of debt and related interest can adversely affect our operating performance. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $222.1 million of our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates on our existing indebtedness would increase interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions as well as the amount of any distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2008 increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense on our existing variable rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.2 million annually. The Board of Trustees has unlimited authority to increase the amount of debt that we may incur. The Board of Trustees (the “Board”) determines financing objectives and the amount of the indebtedness that we may incur and may make revisions to these objectives at any time without a vote of our shareholders. Although the Board has no present intention to change these objectives, revisions could result in a more highly leveraged company with an increased risk of default on indebtedness, an increase in debt service charges, and the addition of new financial covenants that restrict our business. 11 Table of Contents Our issuance of additional common or preferred Shares may affect prevailing market prices for our outstanding common share or preferred shares. Future sales or the anticipation of such sales of additional common or preferred shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares or preferred shares. The market value, or trading price, of our preferred and Common Stock could decrease based upon uncertainty in the marketplace and market perception. The market value, or trading price, of our preferred stock and Common Stock may be based primarily upon the market’s perception of our operational as well as financial growth potential, our liquidity, our level of near-term debt maturities, interest rates, credit worthiness and current and future cash dividends or distributions, and may be secondarily based upon the real estate market value of our underlying assets. The market value, or trading price, of our preferred stock and Common Stock is also influenced by their respective dividends relative to prevailing market interest rates. Uncertainty with respect to interest rate volatility may cause uncertainty in the market value, or trading price, of our preferred stock and Common Stock which could cause the value or price of our stock to decrease, thereby affecting the value of your investment. If our Common Stock is delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) because it trades below $1.00 for an extended period of time, or otherwise there could be a negative effect on our business that could significantly impact our financial condition, our operating results and our ability to service our debt obligations. Although the per share price of our Common Stock has remained above $1.00, in the event the per share trading price of our Common Stock closes below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, our Common Stock could be delisted from the NYSE. The threat of delisting our Common Stock could have adverse effects by, among other things: ● reducing the liquidity and market price of our Common Stock; ● eliminating the open market trading of our Common Stock; ● reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our Common Stock; and ● reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our trustees, officers and employees through the use of equity-based compensation and equity incentives. Our ability to operate or dispose of any partially-owned properties that we may acquire may be restricted. Our ownership of properties through partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for wholly-owned properties. These risks include the possibility that our partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, might have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or make requests contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may need the consent of our partners for major decisions affecting properties that are partially-owned. Joint venture agreements may also contain provisions that could cause us to sell all or a portion of our interest in, or buy all or a portion of our partners’ interests in, such entity or property. These provisions may be triggered at a time when it is not advantageous for us to either buy our partners’ interests or sell our interest. Additionally, if we serve as the managing member of a property-owning joint venture, we may have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the other participants in such entity. There is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures; however, covenants of our unsecured credit facility limit the amount of capital that we may invest in joint ventures at any one time. Our charter and bylaws and the laws of the state of our incorporation contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transactions that could provide shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our Common Shares. In order to maintain GRT’s qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding Common Shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of the taxable year. Additionally, 100 or more persons must beneficially own the outstanding Common Shares during the last 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter tax year. 12 Table of Contents To ensure that GRT will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, GRT’s organizational documents authorize the Board to take such action as may be required to preserve GRT’s qualification as a REIT and to limit any person, other than Herbert Glimcher, David Glimcher (only with respect to the limitation on the ownership of outstanding Common Shares) and any entities or persons approved by the Board, to direct or indirect ownership exceeding: (i) 8.0% of the lesser of the number or value of GRT’s outstanding shares of beneficial interest (including common and preferred shares), (ii) 9.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the total 8¾% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (“Series F Preferred Shares”) outstanding, and (iii) 9.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the total 8⅛% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (“Series G Preferred Shares”) outstanding. Herbert Glimcher and David Glimcher are limited to an aggregate of 25% direct or indirect ownership of Common Shares outstanding without approval of the Board. The Board has also granted an exemption to Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc., permitting them to own, directly or indirectly, of record or beneficially (i) up to 600,000 Series F Preferred Shares and (ii) up to 14.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding shares of any other class of the GRT’s equity securities. The Board has also granted an exemption to Neuberger Berman permitting them to own 608,800 Series G Preferred Shares. Despite these provisions, GRT cannot be sure that there will not be five or fewer individuals who will own more than 50% in value of its outstanding Common Shares, thereby causing GRT to fail to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limits may also discourage a change in control in GRT. The members of the Board are currently divided into three equal classes whose terms expire in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Each year one class of trustees is elected by GRT’s shareholders to hold office for three years. The staggered terms for Board members may affect the ability of GRT shareholders to change control of GRT even if a change in control were in the interests of the shareholders. GRT’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as amended (the “Declaration of Trust”) authorizes the Board to establish one or more series of preferred shares, in addition to those currently outstanding, and to determine the preferences, rights and other terms of any series. The Board could authorize GRT to issue other series of preferred shares that could deter or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction that some, or a majority, of GRT shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or in which GRT shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the prevailing market price of such shares. The Declaration of Trust and our Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the Common Shares or otherwise be in the best interests of GRT’s shareholders. As a Maryland REIT, GRT is subject to the provisions of the Maryland REIT law which imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur, thus delaying or preventing offers to acquire GRT or increasing the difficulty of completing an acquisition of GRT, even if the acquisition is in the best interests of GRT’s shareholders. Risks associated with information systems may interfere with our operations. We are continuing to implement new information systems and problems with the design or implementation of these new systems could interfere with our operations. Our operations could be affected if we lose any key management personnel. Our executive officers have substantial experience in owning, operating, managing, acquiring and developing shopping centers. Success depends in large part upon the efforts of these executives, and we cannot guarantee that they will remain with us. The loss of key management personnel in leasing, finance, legal, construction, development, or operations could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, except for isolated examples, there are generally no restrictions on the ability of these executives to compete with us after termination of their employment. Inflation may influence our operations. Inflation risks could impact our operations due to increases in construction costs as well as other costs pertinent to our business, including, but not limited to, the cost of insurance and utilities. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 