Item 1A. Risk FactorsA number of factors affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of the most significant factors that present a risk of adversely impacting our actual results of operations in future periods in a manner that would cause such results to differ materially from those currently expected, desired, or expressed in any forward looking statement made by us or on our behalf.We are subject to risks inherent in owning real estate investments.Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Our ability to make dividend distributions, debt repayments, the amount or timing of any distribution or dividend, as well as our operating results and strategy implementation, may be adversely affected by the economic climate, business conditions, and certain local conditions including:•oversupply of space or reduced demand for rental space and newly developed properties;•the attractiveness of our properties compared to other retail space;•our ability to provide adequate maintenance to our properties; and•unanticipated fluctuations in real estate taxes, insurance, and other operating costs.Applicable laws, including tax laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing, may adversely affect our income and real estate values. Additionally, real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell our properties, or interest in such properties, quickly may be limited. We cannot be sure that we will be able to lease space as tenants move out or charge historically comparable rents to new tenants entering such space.Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.We maintain appropriate property, business interruption, and third-party liability insurance on our consolidated real estate assets as well as those held in joint ventures in which we have an investment interest. Regardless of our insurance coverage, insured losses could cause a serious disruption to our business and reduce or delay our operations and receipt of revenue. In addition, certain catastrophic perils are subject to large deductibles that may cause an adverse impact on our operating results. Lastly, some types of losses, including lease and other contractual claims, are not insurable. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital that we have invested in a property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property or group of impacted properties.Our insurance policies include coverage for acts of terrorism by foreign or domestic agents. The United States ("U.S.") government provides reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (the “Act”) which extended the effectiveness of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005. The Act is designed to reinsure the insurance industry from declared terrorism events that cause or create in excess of $100 million in damages or losses. The U.S. government could terminate its reinsurance of terrorism, thus increasing the risk of uninsured loss by the Company for such acts.7Table of ContentsSome of our Properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the closure of one or more of these tenants.The ability of anchor tenants to attract customers to a property has a significant effect on the ability of the property to attract tenants and, consequently, on the revenue generated by the property. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation, and retailers that serve as anchor tenants have experienced or are currently experiencing operational changes and other ownership and leadership changes. The closure of an anchor store or a large number of anchor stores might have a negative effect on a property, on our portfolio, and on our results of operations. In addition, for anchors that lease their space, the loss of any rental payments from an anchor, a lease termination by an anchor for any reason, a failure by that anchor to occupy the premises, or any other cessation of operations by an anchor could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants of the same property whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor's lease is terminated or the anchor otherwise ceases occupancy or operations. In that event, we might be unable to re-lease the vacated space of the anchor or in-line store in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, the leases of some anchors might permit the anchor to transfer its lease, including any attendant approval rights, to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor could cause customer traffic in the property to decrease or to be composed of different types of customers, which could reduce the income generated by that property and adversely impact development or re-development prospects for such property. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor also could allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the property, which could adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2013, our three largest tenants were Limited Brands, Inc., The Gap, Inc., and Bain Capital, LLC. representing 2.4%, 2.3%, and 2.0% of our annualized minimum rents, respectively.Our financial position, operating results, ability to make distributions and ability to finance our indebtedness may also be adversely affected by the general downturn in the business of any non-anchor tenant whose influence and impact on a property is analogous or comparable to a traditional anchor tenant. If any such tenants should request significant rent relief or other lease concessions, or elect to close locations at any of our properties before the expiration of their leases, or choose not to renew any such leases at our properties as they expire, our financial results could also be adversely impacted.Bankruptcy of our tenants or downturns in our tenants' businesses may reduce our cash flow.Because we derive almost all of our income from rental payments and other tenant charges, our cash available for distribution as well as our operating results would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us, or if we were unable to lease vacant space in our properties on economically favorable terms. A tenant may seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws which could result in the termination of its lease causing a reduction in our cash available for distribution. A tenant bankruptcy could also cause significant delay in re-leasing the impacted space to a new tenant. Furthermore, certain of our tenants, including anchor tenants, hold the right under their lease(s) to terminate their lease(s) or reduce their rental rate if certain occupancy conditions are not met, if certain anchor tenants close, if certain sales levels or profit margins are not achieved, or if an exclusive use provision is violated, which all could be triggered in the event of one or more tenant bankruptcies. A significant increase in the number of tenant bankruptcies, particularly amongst anchor tenants, may make it more difficult for us to lease the remainder of the property or properties in which the bankrupt tenant operates and adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.Prolonged instability or volatility in the U.S. economy, on a regional or national level, may adversely impact consumer spending and therefore our operating results.A downturn in the U.S. economy, including continued high levels of unemployment, on a regional or national level, and reduced consumer spending could impact our tenants' ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity or other reasons, and therefore decrease the revenue generated by our properties or the value of our properties. Our ability to lease space, negotiate lease terms, and maintain favorable rents could also be negatively impacted by prolonged periods of high unemployment, extended instability, volatility, or weakness in consumer spending, and the overall U.S. economy. Moreover, the demand for leasing space in our existing shopping centers as well as our development properties could also significantly decline during additional downturns in the U.S. economy which could result in a decline in our occupancy percentage and reduction in rental revenues.8Table of ContentsWe face significant competition that may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of our properties as well as our operating results.We compete with many commercial developers, real estate companies, and major retailers. Some of these entities develop or own malls, open-air centers, value-oriented retail properties, and community shopping centers that compete with us for tenants. We face competition for prime locations and for tenants on a national, regional, and local level. New regional malls, open-air centers, or other retail shopping centers with more convenient locations or better rents may attract tenants or cause them to seek more favorable lease terms at or prior to renewal. Retailers at our properties may face increasing competition from other retailers outside of our properties, on-line shopping, outlet centers, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, direct mail, telemarketing and home shopping networks, all of which could adversely impact their profitability or desire to occupy one or more of our properties.The failure to fully recover cost reimbursements for CAM, real estate taxes and insurance from tenants could adversely affect our operating results.The computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for CAM, insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments including interpretation of lease terms and other tenant lease provisions. Most tenants make monthly fixed payments of estimated CAM, real estate taxes, and other cost reimbursement items. After the end of the calendar year, we compute each tenant's final cost reimbursements and issue a bill or credit for the full amount, after considering amounts paid by the tenants during the year. The billed amounts could be disputed by the tenant(s) or become the subject of a tenant audit or even litigation. Final adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2013 have not yet been determined. At December 31, 2013, our recorded accounts receivable reflected $3.3 million of 2013 costs that we expect to recover from tenants during the first six months of 2014. There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially all of this amount.Other tenants have fixed annual CAM obligations, payable in equal monthly installments, based upon our estimated annual CAM expenses. Unforeseen or under-estimated expenses may cause us to collect less than our actual expenses.The results of operations for our properties depend on the economic conditions of the regions of the U.S. in which they are located.Our results of operations and distributions to our shareholders will generally be subject to economic conditions in the regions in which our properties are located. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 25.8% of annualized minimum rents came from our properties located in Ohio, the highest percentage in any one state.We may be unable to successfully redevelop, develop, or operate our properties.As a result of economic and other conditions, as well as required approvals from governmental entities, lenders, or our joint venture partners, development projects may not be pursued or may be completed later or at higher costs than anticipated. In the event of an unsuccessful development project, our loss could exceed our investment in the project. Development and redevelopment activities involve significant risks, including:•the expenditure of funds on and devotion of time to projects that may not come to fruition;•increased construction costs that may make the project economically unattractive;•an inability to obtain construction financing and permanent financing on favorable terms;•occupancy rates and rents not sufficient to make a project profitable; and•provisions within our corporate financing or other agreements that may prohibit or significantly limit the use of capital proceeds for development or redevelopment projects.We may acquire or develop new properties (including outlet centers and open-air centers) and these activities are subject to various risks.We actively pursue development and acquisition activities as opportunities arise, and these activities are subject to the following risks:•the pre-construction phase for a new project often extends over several years, and the time to obtain anchor and tenant commitments, zoning and regulatory approvals, as well as public or private financing can vary significantly from project to project;9Table of Contents•we may not be able to obtain the necessary zoning, governmental approvals, or anchor or tenant commitments for a project, or we may determine that the expected return on a project is not sufficient; if we abandon our development activities with respect to a particular project, we may incur a loss on our investment;•construction and other project costs may exceed our original estimates because of increases in material and labor costs, delays and costs to obtain anchor and tenant commitments;•we may not be able to obtain construction financing, or non-recourse financing of construction loans which financing may have to be recourse to GRT, GPLP, or other significant affiliates of GRT;•occupancy rates and rents, as well as occupancy costs and expenses, at a completed project or an acquired property may not meet our projections, and the costs of development activities that we explore but ultimately abandon will, to some extent, diminish the overall return on our completed development projects and perhaps our financial results; and•we may have difficulty integrating acquired operations, including restructuring and realigning activities, personnel, and technologies.We face competition for the acquisition and development of real estate properties and other assets in the retail sector, which may impede our ability to grow our operations through acquisition and development or may increase the cost of these activities which may impact our financial results and diminish our overall investment return for such activity.We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for the acquisition of regional shopping malls, other retail properties, and other premier development sites, including institutional pension funds, private institutional investors, other REITs, and other private owner-operators of retail properties. In particular, larger entities may enjoy competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital, a better ability to raise capital, a better ability to finance an acquisition, and enhanced operating efficiencies. Additionally, our potential acquisition targets might find our competitors to be more attractive suitors if they have greater resources, are willing to pay more, or have a more compatible operating philosophy. These competitors may increase the market prices we would have to pay in order to acquire properties. If we are unable to acquire properties that meet our criteria at prices we deem reasonable, our ability to grow may be adversely affected, the investment return on the properties we do acquire may be diminished, and our financial results and overall enterprise value may be adversely impacted.We could incur significant costs related to environmental issues.Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of on real property, may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating these substances on or under the property. In connection with the ownership or operation of our properties, we could be liable for such costs, which could be substantial and even exceed the value of such property or the value of our aggregate assets. We could incur such costs or be liable for such costs during a period after we dispose of or transfer a property. The failure to remediate toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent, or mortgage our properties. In addition, existing or future environmental laws or regulations may require us to expend substantial sums in order to use our properties or operate our business. Lastly, in connection with certain mortgage loans encumbering our properties, GPLP, singly, or together with certain affiliates has executed environmental indemnification agreements to indemnify the respective lender(s) for those loans against losses or costs to remediate damage to the mortgaged property caused by the presence or release of hazardous materials. The costs of investigating, perhaps litigating, or remediating these substances on or under the property in question could be substantial and even exceed the value of such property, the unpaid balance of the mortgage, or the value of our aggregate assets.We have established a contingency reserve for one environmental matter as noted in Note 14 - "Commitments and Contingencies" of our consolidated financial statements.10Table of ContentsOur assets may be subject to impairment charges that may materially affect our financial results.We evaluate our real estate assets and other assets for impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of our investment in the asset is not reasonably assured. This evaluation is conducted periodically, but no less frequently than quarterly. Our determination of whether a particular held-for-use asset is impaired is based upon the undiscounted projected cash flows used for the impairment analysis and our determination of the asset's estimated fair value, that in turn are based upon our plans for the respective asset and our views of market and economic conditions. With respect to assets held-for-sale, our determination of whether such an asset is impaired is based upon market and economic conditions. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, then we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made. Furthermore, changes in estimated future cash flows due to a change in our plans, policies, or views of market and economic conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment losses for already impaired assets, which, under the applicable accounting guidance, could be substantial.Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are illiquid.Equity investments in real estate are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changed or changing conditions is limited. The Board may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number of Properties in which we may seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. We could change our investment, disposition, and financing policies without a vote of our shareholders.We may incur significant costs of complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.We may be required to expend significant sums of money to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and other federal, state, and local laws in order for our properties to meet requirements related to access and use by physically challenged persons. Additionally, unanticipated costs and expenses may be incurred in connection with defending lawsuits not covered by our liability insurance.Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences.GRT believes that it has qualified as a REIT under the Code since 1994, but cannot be sure that it will remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within GRT's control that may impact GRT's ability to qualify as a REIT under the Code. In addition, GRT cannot be sure that new laws, regulations and judicial decisions will not significantly change the tax laws relating to REITs, or the federal income tax consequences of REIT qualification.If GRT fails to qualify as a REIT, it would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates. Additionally, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, GRT would also be disqualified from electing to be treated as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification is lost, thereby reducing net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders because of the additional tax liability imposed for the year or years involved. Lastly, GRT would no longer be required by the Code to make any dividend distributions as a condition to REIT qualification. To the extent that dividend distributions to our shareholders may have been made in anticipation of qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of our investments to pay the applicable tax and as a result defer or eliminate one or more scheduled dividend payments.Our shareholders dividends may be subject to an additional tax.An additional tax of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S. stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts for taxable years beginning after January 1, 2013. Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross income from dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property, such as shares of our common stock. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisor's regarding the possible applicability of this additional tax in their particular circumstances.11Table of ContentsOur ownership interests in certain partnerships and other ventures are subject to certain tax risks.Some of our property interests and other investments are made or held through entities in which we have an interest. The tax risks of this type of ownership include possible challenge by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of allocations of income and expense items which could affect the computation of our taxable income, a challenge to the status of any such entities as partnerships (as opposed to associations taxable as corporations) for federal income tax purposes, and the possibility of action being taken by tax regulators or the entities themselves could adversely affect GRT's qualification as a REIT, for example, by requiring the sale by such entity of a property. We believe that the entities in which we have an interest have been and will be treated for tax purposes as partnerships (and not treated as associations taxable as corporations). If our ownership interest in any entity taxable as a corporation exceeded 10% (in terms of vote or value) of such entity's outstanding securities (unless such entity were a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or a “qualified REIT subsidiary,” as those terms are defined in the Code) or the value of interest in any such entity exceeded 5% of the value of our assets, then GRT would cease to qualify as a REIT; distributions from any of these entities would be treated as dividends, to the extent of earnings and profits, and we would not be able to deduct our share of losses, if any, generated by such entity in computing our taxable income.We may not have access to other sources of funds necessary to meet our REIT distribution requirements.In order to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income (determined by excluding any net capital gain). The amount available for distribution will be affected by a number of factors, including the operation of our properties. As part of our business and operations, we may sell additional selected non-core assets or monetize all or a portion of our investment in our other properties. The loss of rental income associated with our properties sold will in turn affect net income and FFO. In order to maintain REIT status, we may be required to make distributions in excess of net income and FFO. In such a case, it may be necessary to arrange for short or long term borrowings, to sell assets, or to issue common or preferred stock or other securities in order to raise funds, which may not be possible due to unsatisfactory market conditions or other factors beyond our control.Debt financing could adversely affect our performance.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.8 billion of total indebtedness outstanding. A number of our outstanding loans will require lump sum or “balloon” payments for the outstanding principal balance at maturity, and we may finance future investments that may be structured in the same manner. Our ability to repay indebtedness at maturity, or otherwise, may depend on our ability to either refinance such indebtedness or to sell certain properties. Additionally, our ability to repay any indebtedness secured by properties the maturity of which is accelerated upon any default may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing for such properties or to own such properties. If we are unable to repay any of our debt at or before maturity, then we may have to borrow from our credit facility, to the extent it has availability thereunder, to make such repayments. In addition, a lender could foreclose on one or more of our properties to collect its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which could reduce the value of the Common Shares or preferred shares and the distributions payable to our shareholders. Furthermore, we have agreements with each of our derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if we either default or are capable of being declared in default on any of our consolidated indebtedness, then we could also be declared in default on our derivative obligations and would be required to settle our derivative obligations under the agreements at their termination value.Volatility, uncertainty, or instability in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to fund our development projects or acquisitions and cause us to seek financing from alternative sources.The state of the credit markets and requirements to obtain credit may negatively impact our ability to access capital or to finance our future expansions of existing properties as well as future acquisitions, development activities, and redevelopment projects. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets or overly stringent or restrictive requirements to obtain credit may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing from non-traditional lending entities that may be subject to greater market risk and may require us to adjust our business plan(s) or financing objectives accordingly. Weakness in the credit markets may also negatively affect the credit ratings of our securities and promote a perceived decline in the value of our properties based on deteriorating general and retail economic conditions which could adversely affect the amount and type of financing available for our properties and operations as well as the terms of such financing.12Table of ContentsOur access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the bank participants to meet their funding commitments.Banks that are a party to our credit facility may have incurred substantial losses or be in danger of incurring substantial losses as a result of previous loans to other borrowers, a decline in the value of certain securities they hold, or their other business dealings and investments. As a result, these banks may become capital constrained, more restrictive in their lending or funding standards, or become insolvent, in which case these banks might not be able to meet their funding commitments under our credit facility.If one or more banks do not meet their funding commitments under our credit facility, then we may be unable to draw sufficient funds under our credit facility for capital to operate our business or other needs and will not be able to utilize the full capacity under the credit facility until replacement lenders are located or one or more of the remaining lenders under the credit facility agrees to fund any shortfall, both of which may be difficult. Accordingly, for all practical purposes under such a scenario, the borrowing capacity under our credit facility may be reduced by the amount of unfunded bank commitments. Our inability to access funds under our credit facility for these reasons could result in our deferring development and redevelopment projects or other capital expenditures, not being able to satisfy debt maturities as they become due or satisfy loan requirements to reduce the amounts outstanding under certain loans, reducing or eliminating future cash dividend payments, or other discretionary uses of cash, or modifying significant aspects of our business strategy.Certain of our financing arrangements contain limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur.Our existing credit facility is the most restrictive of our financing arrangements. Accordingly, at December 31, 2013, the aggregate amount that, based upon the restrictive covenants in the credit facility, may be borrowed through financing arrangements is $197.7 million. Additional amounts could be borrowed as long as we maintain a ratio of total debt-to-total-asset value, as defined in the credit agreement, that complies with the restrictive covenants of the credit facility. We would also be required to maintain certain coverage covenants on a prospective basis which could impact our ability to borrow these additional amounts. Management believes we are in compliance with all covenants under our financing arrangements at December 31, 2013.Our ability to borrow and make distributions could be adversely affected by financial covenants.Our mortgage indebtedness and existing credit facility impose certain financial and operating restrictions on our properties, and on additional financings on properties. These restrictions include restrictions on borrowings, prepayments, and distributions. Additionally, our existing credit facility requires certain financial tests be met, such as the total amount of recourse indebtedness which we are permitted to incur, and some of our mortgage indebtedness provides for prepayment penalties, either of which could restrict our financial flexibility. Our existing credit facility at December 31, 2013 also had payment requirements to reduce the amount that may be outstanding at any one time which could restrict our financial flexibility and liquidity. Moreover, our failure to satisfy certain financial covenants in our financing arrangements may result in a decrease in the market price of our common or preferred stock which could negatively impact our capital raising strategies.The state of financial markets could affect our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing, or have other adverse effects on us or the market or trading price of our outstanding securities.Extreme volatility and instability in the U.S. and global equity and credit markets could result in significant price volatility and liquidity disruptions causing the market prices of stocks to fluctuate substantially and the credit spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances could have a significantly negative impact on liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive or unavailable to us. Prolonged uncertainty in the equity and credit markets would negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms or at all. With respect to debt financing, our cost of borrowing in the future could be significantly higher than recent levels. In the case of a common equity financing, the disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our Common Shares, potentially requiring us to issue more shares than we would otherwise have issued with a higher market value for our Common Shares. These financial market circumstances will negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions, undertake new development projects and refinance our debt. These circumstances could also make it more difficult for us to sell properties (including outparcels) and may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers are experiencing increased costs of financing and difficulties in obtaining financing. There is a risk that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will not restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of equity or credit financing.13Table of ContentsA weakened national and regional economy can also adversely affect many of our tenants and their businesses, including their ability to pay rents when due, or pay rents that are set at levels competitive with the market. Tenants may also involuntarily terminate or stop paying on leases prior to the lease termination date due to bankruptcy. Tenants may decide not to renew leases and we may not be able to re-let the space the tenant vacates. The terms of renewals, including the cost of required improvements or concessions, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our cash flow could decrease and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and conduct our operations could be adversely affected.Our variable rate debt obligations may impede our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage, as well as adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to you.Required repayments of debt and related interest can adversely affect our operating performance. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $145.9 million of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. An increase in interest rates on our existing variable rate indebtedness would increase interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions as well as the amount of any distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2013 increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense on our existing variable rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $1.1 million annually which could impact our earnings and financial results.Our corporate structure imposes no limit on the amount of debt we may incur or authority to increase the amount of debt that we may incur.The Board approves our material financing transactions and the amount of the indebtedness we incur in such transactions. Senior management of the Company may make revisions to our Company's financing objectives at any time without a vote of our shareholders. Although senior management has no present intention to change these objectives, revisions could result in a more highly leveraged company with an increased risk of default on indebtedness, an increase in debt service charges, and the addition of new financial covenants that restrict our business.We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our Common Shares as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our Common Shares.In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, guarantees, preferred shares, hybrid securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive distributions of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our Common Shares. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future secondary offerings may be influenced by market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future secondary offerings or debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future.There may be future dilution of our Common Shares and resales of our Common Shares in the public market following any secondary offering we do that may cause the market price for our Common Shares to decline.Our Second Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (the “Declaration of Trust”) authorizes the Board to, among other things, issue additional common or preferred shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional common or preferred shares or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to our common shareholders. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted share units, share appreciation rights, performance shares, options, or warrants to purchase our Common Shares in the future and those share appreciation rights, options, or warrants are exercised or the restricted share units and performance shares vest, our common shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our Common Shares have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our common shareholders. Furthermore, the resale by shareholders of our Common Shares in the public market following any secondary offering could have the effect of depressing the market price for our Common Shares.14Table of ContentsThe investments we have made or plan to make in redeveloping older properties and developing new properties might not yield the returns we anticipate, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. From time to time, we develop commercial real estate or redevelop existing commercial properties that we own or acquire. These projects are subject to a number of risks that could negatively affect our anticipated or projected return on investment, financial condition, and results of operations, including, among others:•delayed ability or inability to reach projected occupancy, rental rates, profitability, and investment return;•timing delays due to tenant decision delays and other factors outside our control, which might make a project less profitable or unprofitable, or delay profitability;•expenditure of money and time on projects that might be significantly delayed before stabilization;•unanticipated delays in financing relating to a particular development or redevelopment project;•new or competing developments; and•the condition of the local and regional economy in which the development or redevelopment project is located.Some of our retail properties that we target or identify for redevelopment were constructed or last renovated more than ten years ago. Older and un-renovated properties tend to generate lower rent and might require significant expense for maintenance or renovations to maintain competitiveness, which, if incurred, could harm our results of operations. Development and redevelopment plans are subject to then-prevailing economic, capital market and retail industry conditions. For this reason, and others, we might elect not to proceed with certain development or redevelopment projects after the project is commenced. In general, when we elect not to proceed with a project, costs for such a project will be expensed in the then-current period. The accelerated recognition of these expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the expenses are recognized. Clauses in leases with certain tenants of our development or redevelopment properties frequently include inducements, such as reduced rent and tenant allowance payments, that can reduce our rents and funds from operations. As a result, these development or redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than our previous development or redevelopment properties.The leases for a number of the tenants that have opened stores at properties we have developed or redeveloped have reduced rent from co-tenancy clauses that allow those tenants to pay reduced rent until occupancy at the respective property reaches certain thresholds and/or certain named co-tenants open stores at the respective property. Additionally, some tenants may have rent abatement clauses that delay rent commencement for a prolonged period of time after initial occupancy. The effect of these clauses reduces our rents and FFO while they are applicable. We expect to continue to offer co-tenancy and rent abatement clauses in the future to attract tenants to our development and redevelopment properties. As a result, our current and future development and redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than other projects of this nature historically have, which may adversely impact our investment in such developments, as well as our financial condition and results of operations.The market value or trading price of our preferred and Common Shares could decrease based upon uncertainty in the marketplace and market perception.The market price of our common and preferred shares may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control or influence. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares. Among the factors that could adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares are:•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;•changes in our FFO, revenue, or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs;•negative speculation or information in the media or investment community;•any changes in our distribution or dividend policy;•any sale or disposal of properties within our portfolio;15Table of Contents•any future issuances of equity securities;•increases in leverage, mortgage debt financing, or outstanding borrowings;•strategic actions by our Company or our competitors, such as acquisitions, joint ventures, or restructurings;•general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry;•proposed or adopted regulatory or legislative changes or developments; or•anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves or affect us.We may change the dividend policy for our Common Shares in the future.IRS revenue procedure allows us to satisfy our REIT distribution requirement with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2014 by distributing up to 90% of our dividends in common shares in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash. Although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2014, we have not done so and do not currently have any intention to do so with respect to any of our regular quarterly dividends. The issuance of common shares in lieu of paying dividends in cash could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and FFO per share and could result in the resale by shareholders of our Common Shares in the public market following such a distribution, which could have the effect of depressing the market price for our Common Shares.In the event that we pay a portion of a dividend in Common Shares, taxable U.S. shareholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid in Common Shares, in which case such shareholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. If a U.S. shareholder sells the Common Shares it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our Common Shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividend, including with respect to all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in Common Shares. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders sell our Common Shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends or for other purposes, such sales may put downward pressure on the market price of our Common Shares.The decision to declare and pay dividends on our Common Shares in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of the Board and will depend on: (1) our earnings, FFO, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual prohibitions or other limitations under our indebtedness, (2) the distribution requirement necessary for us to both maintain our REIT qualification under the Code, and avoid (and/or minimize) the income and/or excise tax liability that we would otherwise incur under the rules applicable to REITs on our taxable income and gains in the event we do not distribute, state law and (3) such other factors as the Board deems relevant. Any change to our dividend policy for our Common Shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Shares.Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate debt. Additionally, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful. Our use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Additionally, pending regulatory and legislative initiatives as well as recently imposed requirements on counterparties we transact with may increase the costs and time to negotiate and execute hedging arrangements and therefore negate some or all of the benefits of such transactions. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. The unscheduled termination of these hedging agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.16Table of ContentsOur ability to operate or dispose of any partially-owned properties that we may acquire may be restricted.Our ownership of properties through partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for wholly-owned properties. These risks include the possibility that our partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, might have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or make requests contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may need the consent of our partners for major decisions affecting properties that are partially-owned. Joint venture agreements may also contain provisions that could cause us to sell all or a portion of our interest in, or buy all or a portion of our partners' interests in, such entity or property. These provisions may be triggered at a time when it is not advantageous for us to either buy our partners' interests or sell our interest. Additionally, if we serve as the managing member of a property-owning joint venture, we may have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the other participants in such entity. There is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures; however, covenants of our credit facility limit the amount of capital that we may invest in joint ventures at any one time.Our charter, bylaws and the laws of the state of our formation contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transactions that could provide shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our Common Shares.In order to maintain GRT's qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of the taxable year. Additionally, 100 or more persons must beneficially own the outstanding shares of beneficial interest during the last 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter tax year.To ensure that GRT will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, GRT's organizational documents authorize the Board to take such action as may be required to preserve GRT's qualification as a REIT and to limit any person, other than entities or persons approved by the Board, to direct or indirect ownership exceeding a certain percentage. Despite these provisions and other safeguards existing in the Declaration of Trust, GRT cannot be sure that there will not be five or fewer individuals who will own more than 50% in value of its outstanding shares of beneficial interest, thereby causing GRT to fail to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limits may also discourage a change in control in GRT.The members of the Board are currently divided into three equal classes whose terms expire in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Typically, each year one class of trustees is elected by GRT's shareholders to hold office for three years. The staggered terms for Board members may affect the ability of GRT shareholders to change control of GRT even if a change in control were in the interests of the shareholders.GRT's Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board to establish one or more series of preferred shares, in addition to those currently outstanding, and to determine the preferences, rights and other terms of any series. The Board could authorize GRT to issue other series of preferred shares that could deter or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction that some, or a majority, of GRT shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or in which GRT shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the prevailing market price of such shares.The Declaration of Trust and our Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the Common Shares or otherwise be in the best interests of GRT's shareholders. As a Maryland REIT, GRT is subject to the provisions of the Maryland REIT law which imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur, thus delaying or preventing offers to acquire GRT or increasing the difficulty of completing an acquisition of GRT, even if the acquisition is in the best interests of GRT's shareholders.Risks associated with information systems may interfere with our operations or ability to maintain adequate records.We are continuing to implement new information systems and problems with the design as well as the security or implementation of these new systems could interfere with our operations or ability to maintain adequate and secure records.17Table of ContentsOur operations could be affected if we lose any key management personnel.Our executive officers have substantial experience in owning, operating, managing, acquiring and developing shopping centers. Success depends in large part upon the efforts of these executives, and we cannot guarantee that they will remain with us. The loss of key management personnel in leasing, finance, legal, construction, development, or property management could have a negative impact on our operations. Additionally, there are generally no restrictions on the ability of these executives to compete with us after termination of their employment.Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Increased inflation could impact our operations due to increases in construction costs as well as other costs pertinent to our business, including, but not limited to, the cost of insurance and utilities. These costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable.Deflation can result in a decline in general price levels, often caused by a decrease in the supply of money or credit. The predominant effects of deflation are high unemployment, credit contraction and weakened consumer demand. Restricted lending practices could impact our ability to obtain financings or re-financings for our properties and our tenants' ability to obtain credit. Decreases in consumer demand can have a direct impact on our tenants and the rents we receive.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.