ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The purchase of shares of capital stock of the Company involves many risks. A prospective investor should carefully consider the following factors before making a decision to purchase any such shares: We Have Historically Lost Money and Losses May Continue in the Future We have historically lost money. Our decrease in net assets from operations for the 2009 fiscal year was $345,941, and future losses could occur. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. We recently undertook our current business model and as a result, historical results may not be relied upon with regard to our operating history In November 2009, we formally began implementing our current business model of providing capital and services to biotech companies. We are classified as an investment company under the 1940 Investment Company Act. As such, we have presented our financial results and accompanying notes in such fashion. Conversely, in 2008 and other years, our operating results were presented in the format and style of an industrial company. As a result, our financial performance and statements may not be comparable between these years. Page 11 of 58 The Company's cash expenses are very large relative to its cash flow; which will require the Company to issue equity to raise capital. This could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders’ equity or our ability to continue in operations should additional capital not be raised For year ended December 31, 2009, the Company had no operating revenues and had net operating expenses of $359,783. Consequently, the Company will have to sell shares of the Company's common stock or issue promissory notes to raise the cash necessary to pay ongoing expenses. Moreover, there is no assurance the Company will be able to find investors willing to purchase Company shares at a price and on terms acceptable to the Company, in which case, the Company could further deplete its cash resources. Regulations governing operations of a BDC will affect the Company's ability to raise capital, and the way in which the Company raises additional capital. This could result in the Company not being able to raise additional capital and accordingly cease operations Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, the Company is permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of portfolio assets declines, the Company may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, the Company may be required to sell all or a portion of its investments and, depending on the nature of the Company's leverage, repay a portion of its indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and result in unfavorable prices. Applicable law requires that business development companies may invest 70% of its assets only in privately held U.S. companies, small, publicly traded U.S. companies with market capitalizations under $250 Million, certain high-quality debt, and cash. The Co mpany is not generally able to issue and sell common stock at a price below net asset value per share. The Company may, however, sell common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire common stock, at prices below the current net asset value of the common stock if the Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which the Company's securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of the Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). The success of the Company will depend on management's ability to make successful investments If the Company is unable to select profitable investments, the Company will not achieve its objectives and miss any projected earnings targets. The Company's investment activities are inherently risky Page 12 of 58 The Company's investment activities involve a significant degree of risk. The performance of any investment is subject to numerous factors which are neither within the control of nor predictable by the Company. Such factors include a wide range of economic, political, competitive and other conditions which may affect investments in general or specific industries or companies. The Company's equity investments may lose all or part of their value, causing the Company to lose all or part of its investment in those companies The equity interests in which the Company invests may not appreciate in value and may decline in value. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to realize gains from its investments and any gains realized on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any losses experienced. Moreover, the Company's primary objective is to invest in early stage biotechnology and biomedical companies whose products will frequently not have demonstrated market acceptance. Many portfolio companies will lack depth of management and have limited financial resources. All of these factors make investments in the Company's portfolio companies particularly risky. Our common stock is traded on the "Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board," which may make it more difficult for investors to resell their shares due to suitability requirements Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) under the symbol (SMCA) where we expect it to remain in the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTCBB stocks given the markets for such securities are often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval and their interests may differ from other stockholders Our executive officer and directors have the ability to appoint a majority to the Board of Directors. Accordingly, our directors and executive officer, whether acting alone or together, may have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our Board for approval, including issuing common and preferred stock, appointing officers, which could have a material impact on mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these board members may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Our share ownership is concentrated The Company's chief executive officer, together with his affiliates, beneficially owns approximately 90% of the Company's voting shares. As a result, the chief executive officer will exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the assets, as well as any charter amendment and other matters requiring stockholder approval. In addition, the chief executive officer may dictate the day to day management of the business. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and may have a negative impact on the market price of the Company's common stock by discouraging third party investors. In a ddition, the interests of the chief executive officer may not always coincide with the interests of the Company's other stockholders. Page 13 of 58 We may change our investment policies without further shareholder approval Although we are limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified investment companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, neither are we limited to the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. The Company's common stock may be subject to the penny stock rules which might make it harder for stockholders to sell As a result of our stock price, our shares are subject to the penny stock rules. Because a "penny stock" is, generally speaking, one selling for less than $5.00 per share, the Company's common stock may be subject to the foregoing rules. The application of the penny stock rules may affect stockholders' ability to sell their shares because some broker-dealers may not be willing to make a market in the Company's common stock because of the burdens imposed upon them by the penny stock rules which include but are not limited to: Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rules 15g-1 through 15g-6, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker- dealers who sell Company securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Rule 15g-2 declares unlawful any broker-dealer transactions in penny stocks unless the broker-dealer has first provided to the customer a standardized disclosure document. Rule 15g-3 provides that it is unlawful for a broker-dealer to engage in a penny stock transaction unless the broker-dealer first discloses and subsequently confirms to the customer the current quotation prices or similar market information concerning the penny stock in question. Rule 15g-4 prohibits broker-dealers from completing penny stock transactions for a customer unless the broker-dealer first discloses to the customer the amount of compensation or other remuneration received as a result of the penny stock transaction. Rule 15g-5 requires that a broker-dealer executing a penny stock transaction, other than one exempt under Rule 15g-1, disclose to its customer, at the time of or prior to the transaction, information about the sales persons compensation. Page 14 of 58 Potential shareholders of the Company should also be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) "boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resu lting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Limited regulatory oversight may require potential investors to fend for themselves The Company has elected to be treated as a business development company under the 1940 Act which makes the Company exempt from some provisions of that statute. The Company is not registered as a broker-dealer or investment advisor because the nature of its proposed activities does not require it to do so; moreover it is not registered as a commodity pool operator under the Commodity Exchange Act, based on its intention not to trade commodities or financial futures. However, the Company is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result of this limited regulatory oversight, the Company is not subject to certain operating limitations, capital requirements, or reporting obligations that might otherwise apply and investors may be left to fend for themselves. The Company's concentration of portfolio company securities The Company will attempt to hold the securities of several different portfolio companies. However, a significant amount of the Company's holdings could be concentrated in the securities of only a few companies. This risk is particularly acute during this time period of early Company operations, which could result in significant concentration with respect to a particular issuer or industry. The concentration of the Company's portfolio in any one issuer or industry would subject the Company to a greater degree of risk with respect to the failure of one or a few issuers or with respect to economic downturns in such industry than would be the case with a more diversified portfolio. Because many of the Company's portfolio securities will be recorded at values as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, the prices at which the Company is able to dispose of these holdings may differ from their respective recorded values The Company values its portfolio securities at fair value as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. However, the Company may be required on a more frequent basis to value the securities at fair value as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting the value of such securities. For privately held securities, and to a lesser extent, for publicly-traded securities, this valuation is an art and not a science. The Board of Directors may retain an independent valuation firm to aid it on a selective basis in making fair value determinations. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of an investment include the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison of the portfolio company to (other) publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow of the portfolio company, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate during short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. As a result, the Company may not be able to dispose of its holdings at a price equal to or greater than the determined fair value. Net asset value could be adversely affected if the determination regarding the fair value of Company investments is materially higher than the values ultimately realized upon the disposal of such securities. Page 15 of 58 The lack of liquidity in the Company's portfolio securities would probably prevent the Company from disposing of them at opportune times and prices, which may cause a loss and/or reduce a gain The Company will hold securities in privately held companies. Some of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of such investments may make it difficult to sell such investments at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. In addition, if the Company is required to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, it may realize significantly less than the values recorded for such investments. The Company may also face other restrictions on its ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that the Company has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. If the Company is unable to sell its assets at opportune times, it might suffer a loss and/or reduce a gain. Restrictions on resale and limited liquidity are both factors the Board will consider in determining fair value of portfolio securities. Moreover, even holdings in publicly traded securities could be relatively illiquid because the market for companies of the type in which the Company invests tend to be less active than for larger companies and usually cannot accommodate large volume trades. Holding securities of privately held companies may be riskier than holding securities of publicly traded companies due to the lack of available public information The Company will hold securities in privately-held companies which may be subject to higher risk than holdings in publicly traded companies. Generally, little public information exists about privately held companies, and the Company will be required to rely on the ability of management to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved in investing in these companies. If the Company is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and it may lose some or all of the money it invests in these companies. These factors could subject the Company to greater risk than holding securities in publicly traded companies and negatively affect investment returns. The market values of publicly traded portfolio companies are likely to be extremely volatile Our clients will be early stage biotech companies. As a result, their operations and futures are highly dependent on their ability to develop a product and on public perception. Unlike more seasoned companies with historical financial projections that can be used to evaluate performance, our clients typically do not possess such historical figures. Accordingly, shares of our portfolio companies that are quoted for public trading will generally be thinly traded and subject to wide and sometimes precipitous swings in value. Page 16 of 58 The Company is Subject to Risks Created by the Valuation of its Portfolio Investments There is typically no public market for equity securities of the small privately held companies in which the Company will sometimes invest. As a result, the valuations of the equity securities in the Company’s portfolio are stated at fair value as determined by the good faith estimate of the Company’s Board of Directors. In the absence of a readily ascertainable market value, the estimated value of the Company’s portfolio of securities may differ significantly, favorably or unfavorably, from the values that would be placed on the portfolio if a ready market for the equity securities existed. Any changes in estimated value are recorded in the statement of operations as “Net increase in unrealized appreciation.” The Company’s Portfolio Investments are Illiquid Most of the investments of the Company are or will be either equity securities acquired directly from small companies or subordinated debt securities. The Company’s portfolio of equity securities is, and will usually be, subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise has no established trading market. The illiquidity of most of the Company’s portfolio may adversely affect the ability of the Company to dispose of the securities at times when it may be advantageous for the Company to liquidate investments. Investing in Private Companies involves a High Degree of Risk The Company will invest a substantial portion of its assets in small and medium sized private companies. These private businesses may be thinly capitalized, unproven companies with risky technologies, may lack management depth, and may not have attained profitability. Because of the speculative nature and the lack of a public market for these investments, there is significantly greater risk of loss than is the case with traditional investment securities. The Company expects that some of its venture capital investments will be a complete loss or will be unprofitable and that some will appear to be likely to become successful but never realize their potential. Even if the Company’s portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Commercial success is difficult to predict and the marketing efforts of the portfolio companies may not be successful. Investing in the Company’s Shares May be Inappropriate for the Investor’s Risk Tolerance The Company’s investments, in accordance with its investment objective and principal strategies, result in a greater than average amount of risk and volatility and may well result in loss of principal. Its investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in its shares may not be suitable for investors for whom such risk is inappropriate. Neither the Company’s investments nor an investment in the Company is intended to constitute a balanced investment program. Page 17 of 58 The Company is Subject to Risks Created by its Regulated Environment The Company is regulated by the SEC. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern BDCs could significantly affect the Company’s business. Regulations and laws may be changed periodically, and the interpretations of the relevant regulations and laws are also subject to change. Any change in the regulations and laws governing the Company’s business could have a material impact on its financial condition or its results of operations. The Company is Dependent Upon Key Management Personnel for Future Success The Company is dependent on the diligence and skill of its senior officer, Bryce Knight for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of its investments. The future success of the Company depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of its senior manager. The departure of its executive officer could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its officers or employees. The Company Operates in a Competitive Market for Investment Opportunities The Company faces competition in its investing activities from many entities including SBICs, private venture capital funds, investment affiliates of large companies, wealthy individuals and other domestic or foreign investors. The competition is not limited to entities that operate in the same geographical area as the Company. As a regulated BDC, the Company is required to disclose quarterly and annually the name and business description of portfolio companies and the value of its portfolio securities. Most of its competitors are not subject to this disclosure requirement. The Company’s obligation to disclose this information could hinder its ability to invest in certain portfolio companies. Additionally, other regulations, current and future, may make the Company less attractive as a potential investor to a given portfolio com pany than a private venture capital fund. The Company May be Negatively Affected by Adverse Changes in the General Economic Conditions of the Domestic and Global Markets The continued economic crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on the Company’s portfolio companies and the overall financial condition of the Company. If the current market conditions continue to deteriorate, the Company may suffer further losses on its investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on Net Asset Value. Fluctuations of Quarterly Results The Company’s quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which portfolio companies encounter competition in their markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. Page 18 of 58 