Item 1A. Risk Factors The discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We offer only one line of products, which is advanced visualization software, related services and hardware, and if our products do not continue to gain market acceptance, our financial results would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to successfully market advanced visualization software for clinical use, and on the ability and willingness of physicians to use enterprise-wide advanced visualization medical imaging software in clinical analysis and therapy planning. Our enterprise-wide advanced visualization software products are alternatives to the conventional methods traditionally used for viewing medical images in the clinical setting. Often, a purchase 10 Table of Contents by a customer of our products means that it has chosen not to utilize software that was provided in connection with the customer’s purchase of a scanner, which means that the customer may pay additional amounts to obtain our products. The acceptance of our products by physicians and other clinicians will depend on our ability to educate those users as to the speed, ease-of-use and other benefits offered by our products and systems, as well as our timely introduction of new features and functions. There can be no assurance that users will prefer advanced visualization and analysis software solutions over less expensive 2D medical imaging software or that we will succeed in our efforts to further develop, commercialize and achieve market acceptance for our products or for any other product in the clinical setting. Further, most of our business in markets outside the United States is provided through third parties with whom we have marketing agreements. There can be no assurance that these third parties will wish to continue our relationships on an indefinite basis or under the same terms as the business is currently conducted. Further, although we have undertaken efforts to develop direct relationships with customers in markets outside the United States, we may not be successful in doing so at a sufficient level. The loss of or adverse changes in our relationships with our third-party business partners, and our failure to establish sufficient direct relationships with customers outside the United States, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales of our software in connection with customer purchases of CT scanners, and any decline in the purchase of CT scanners or any difficulty we have in growing sales separately from sales of CT scanners could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business historically was tied to sales of our Vitrea advanced visualization software and related software options (which includes software, hardware and maintenance and services), which were typically purchased concurrently with a customer’s purchase of CT imaging equipment. Forecasts for 2009 suggest that the market for CT imaging equipment will be down significantly. In order to improve the marketability of our products separately from sales of CT imaging equipment, during 2008, we evolved our business model into sales throughout a customer’s enterprise when we launched ViTAL Enterprise in May. ViTAL Enterprise includes Vitrea and ViTALConnect software, as well as all options that we manufacture for such products. ViTAL Enterprise makes all of our clinical functionality available throughout a hospital enterprise to better enable specialists to take advantage of our tools. We intend for ViTAL Enterprise to be sold both with purchases of CT equipment as well as in the absence of such purchases. There can be no assurance that ViTAL Enterprise will meet with acceptance by a wide range of hospitals or that specialists throughout hospitals will wish to use our tools. If ViTAL Enterprise does not meet with market acceptance, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We presently depend on Toshiba for a significant portion of our total revenues. A reduction in the business from Toshiba could adversely affect our revenues and could seriously harm our business. A limited number of large customers may continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue during any given period for the foreseeable future. One of our principal distribution channels is to sell our medical imaging software in connection with medical imaging equipment sold by Toshiba. Sales to Toshiba accounted for 52% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 47% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 41% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Toshiba’s accounts receivable represented 42% of our accounts receivable at December 31, 2008 and 34% at December 31, 2007. Except for our agreement with Toshiba, we have no significant purchase commitments from any of our customers or business partners, and we generally make sales pursuant to individual transactions. Our joint distribution agreement with Toshiba commenced in 2001 and has been extended five times, most recently through December 31, 2013. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from Toshiba, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from Toshiba, likely would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In February 2009, Toshiba announced that via its wholly-owned subsidiary, Toshiba Medical Visualization Systems Europe, Ltd., it had completed its acquisition of the Advanced Visualization Imaging System Division (AVIS) of Barco nv, Edinburgh, Scotland. This acquisition enables Toshiba to conduct in-house development of 3D volume rendering and advanced visualization capabilities for all Toshiba modalities. For the past 10 years, Toshiba has used Voxar 3D visualization core software, a product of AVIS, in its medical imaging products and PACS. AVIS, as part of Barco, provided advanced visualization solutions for the medical imaging and PACS markets. We believe that due to Toshiba’s renewal in November 2008 of its agreement with us to resell our products and its execution in January 2009 of an agreement to fund our development of advanced visualization software, the acquisition of AVIS by Toshiba will not have a material negative impact on our sales to Toshiba. However, there can be no assurance that Toshiba will not use AVIS to develop technologies that are competitive to our products, particularly to work with lower-end CT imaging equipment. If Toshiba does develop technologies that are 11 Table of Contents competitive to our products, it could choose to sell its own products in place of ours, which likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a single industry and are therefore dependent upon growth in the advanced visualization market. If that market does not grow as we expect, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The advanced visualization industry in which we market our products is currently faced with regulatory, technical and market challenges. State and federal governmental agencies and private payors are putting pressure on reimbursement rates for advanced visualization examinations, which can negatively affect demand for our products. Many of the major hospitals and medical research centers within the United States have already purchased scanners, PACS and advanced visualization technologies, causing future sales to be upgrades or replacements instead of new installations, potentially lengthening the sales cycles as customers feel less urgency to purchase and implement new systems. We believe that the market for advanced visualization technologies is still developing, with growth opportunities outside the United States and among specialists beyond radiology. However, given the uncertainties associated with the developing stage of many of these markets, there can be no assurance that they will develop in the manner we anticipate or that they will not require a level of investment greater than we expect. Additionally, some of our customers finance their acquisitions through third-party lenders. With the recent tightening in the lending market, some customers who would otherwise purchase our products may not be able to obtain sufficient financing and therefore will not complete their purchases. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the advanced visualization industry will provide growth opportunities for us and our software products or that our business strategies will be successful as the industry continues to evolve. Ultimately, if the advanced visualization industry fails to develop as we expect, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We participate in a highly competitive industry. If we fail to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the advanced visualization industry. We expect technology to continue to develop rapidly, and our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our products. Our competitors in the advanced visualization industry include large, established manufacturers of CT and MR imaging equipment. Companies such as GE, Siemens and Philips typically offer their own advanced visualization software and workstations as part of their integrated imaging and scanner systems. Our software works on the products offered by each of these companies. To win business against equipment manufacturers, we must convince customers to buy our software solutions separately from their purchase of imaging equipment instead of buying integrated systems from our competitors. In addition to having a competitive advantage in marketing advanced visualization tools as an integrated part of their imaging products, our competitors have significantly greater capital and staffing resources for research and development that are critical to success in the dynamic advanced visualization industry, more recognizable brand names, and more well-established marketing and distribution networks. Although price has been less significant than other factors, increasing competition may result in price reductions and reduced gross margins. Additionally, we face competition from other entities, such as PACS vendors and developers of competitive or ancillary software packages. We may not be able to compete effectively with such manufacturers or competing entities on each or any particular factor, including price, features and service. Our products may become obsolete or non-competitive, or we may develop non-competitive products, which would result in reduced revenue and profit margins. The advanced visualization market is characterized by rapid innovation and technological change. For example, as scanners become faster and generate increasingly more slices, our software must maintain its capability to handle the increased data volumes generated by the more powerful scanners. We may devote time and resources to develop products that do not obtain market acceptance or for which the market is much smaller than we expected when we planned the products, and we may be otherwise unable to compete effectively in the marketplace. Products developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Similarly, our competitors may succeed in developing or marketing products that are viewed as providing superior clinical performance or are less expensive than our current or future products. 12 Table of Contents As our products are accessed by additional medical professionals throughout an enterprise, the satisfaction of our customers may decrease. Historically, our products were used by radiologists who received education on the use of imaging products in medical school and continuing education programs and to whom we provided training in connection with their purchases. Further, use of medical imaging products is a relatively routine activity for radiologists. As our products are used by additional medical professionals throughout an enterprise, however, they will be used by persons with less training and familiarity with imaging technologies. Occasional and less-trained users of imaging technology may find use of our products to be more difficult than do radiologists, which could increase our time and expenses supporting these users, thus negatively affecting our gross margins for support services. Further, these users may realize less satisfaction than do our historical customers, negatively affecting the adoption of our products elsewhere in the enterprise. Finally, occasional and less-trained users are more likely to use our products incorrectly. Although our products are intended to be secondary analytical devices, their incorrect use could result in errors by medical professionals in their treatment of patients, lowering their satisfaction with our products and potentially exposing us to legal and regulatory liability, which could affect our results of operations and ability to market our products. We may make future acquisitions, which may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our shareholders. Part of our continuing business strategy is to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, enhance our market coverage or technical capabilities, or offer growth opportunities. Future acquisitions could pose numerous risks to our operations, including: · we may have difficulty integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; · we may incur substantial unanticipated integration costs; · assimilating the acquired businesses may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business; · acquisitions could result in the loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations; · we may have difficulty retaining or developing the acquired businesses’ customers; · acquisitions could adversely affect our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · we may fail to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the strategic benefits of the acquisitions; and · we may incur liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claims, and we may not be successful in seeking indemnification for such liabilities or claims. Further, we may not receive the returns from an acquisition that were expected at the time of acquisition. In connection with any acquisition or investment, we could incur debt, be required to amortize expenses related to intangible assets, incur large and immediate write-offs, experience volatility in future earnings resulting from contingent consideration, assume liabilities, or issue stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage of ownership. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell our products internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities, which could harm our international sales and profitability. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, 29%, 19% and 15% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to international sales. Toshiba has been the primary source of our international sales. We are also developing direct international sales and marketing efforts. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because most of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international consumer and therefore less competitive in international markets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, the percentage of sales denominated in non-U.S. currencies may increase in the future, in which case fluctuations in exchange rates could affect demand for our products. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: · export restrictions and controls relating to technology; 13 Table of Contents · the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; · pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; · required compliance with existing and new foreign regulatory requirements and laws; · business customs in other countries that violate U.S. laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · longer payment cycles; · difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; · political and economic instability; · potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; · international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · changes in currency exchange rates; and · difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. If our internal control over financial reporting is found to be inadequate, our financial results may not be accurate, raising concerns for investors and potentially adversely affecting our stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and will continue to do so for future periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements, and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, from our independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, our assessment of our internal controls may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors and therefore adversely affect our stock price. We may experience fluctuations in operating results, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in annual and quarterly operating results. If these fluctuations occur, they may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors that are outside of our control including, but not limited to, the timing of significant orders, the timing of product enhancements and new product introductions by us or our competitors, the pricing of our products, changes in customers’ budgets and competitive conditions. Our quarterly license and services revenue may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following: · a significant number of our existing and prospective clients’ decisions regarding whether to enter into license agreements with us are made within the last few weeks or days of each quarter; · the size and number of license transactions can vary significantly; · our dependence on Toshiba or any other major customer for a significant portion of our revenues; · a decrease in license fee revenue which may likely result in a decrease in services revenue in the same or subsequent quarters; · clients unexpectedly postponing or cancelling projects due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel; · the uncertainty caused by potential business combinations in the software industry, causing clients and prospective clients to cancel, postpone or reduce capital spending projects on software; · client evaluations and purchasing processes that vary significantly from company to company, and a client’s internal approval and expenditure authorization process that is difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; · the number, timing and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us or our competitors; · existing clients declining to renew support for our products, and market pressures that limit our ability to increase support fees or require clients to upgrade from older versions of our products; or · prospective clients declining or deferring the purchase of new products or releases if we do not have sufficient client references for those products. 14 Table of Contents If we do not achieve a substantial improvement in pretax results in 2009 over 2008, we may need to establish a valuation allowance for some or all of our deferred tax assets, which could materially impact our income tax provision, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had $14.6 million of deferred tax assets. Considerations for determining the realizability of our deferred tax assets primarily involve cumulative pre-tax income for financial reporting purposes, cumulative taxable income for the past three years, estimated future pre-tax income for financial reporting purposes and estimated future taxable income from our core business. We also consider the expiration dates and amounts of net operating loss carryforwards and other tax credits, and estimate the impact of future tax deductions from the exercise of stock options. If we do not achieve a substantial improvement in pretax results in 2009 over 2008, it is reasonably possible that we may need to establish additional valuation allowances for some or all of our deferred tax assets, which could materially impact our income tax provision, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to government regulation, which can result in additional costs or restrict our ability to market our products. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in foreign countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates the development, introduction, manufacturing, labeling and record keeping procedures for medical devices, including 3D medical imaging software and systems. Our medical devices require clearance or approval by the FDA before they can be commercially distributed in the United States. Modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new FDA clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision and may require a new clearance or approval for the modification if it disagrees with the manufacturer’s decision. If the FDA requires us to seek clearance or approval for the modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. The process of obtaining marketing clearance from the FDA for new products and new applications for existing products can be time-consuming and expensive. All of our current products are marketed pursuant to 510(k) pre-market clearance from the FDA. Our products have been cleared to be marketed for use with CT, MR and PET scanners. The FDA may not grant clearance with respect to our future products or enhancements, or future FDA review may involve delays that could adversely affect our ability to market such future products or enhancements. In addition, our future products or enhancements may be subject to a more lengthy and expensive pre-market approval process with the FDA. Even if we obtain regulatory clearances and approvals to market a product from the FDA, these approvals may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Product clearances and approvals by the FDA can also be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The FDA could also limit or prevent the distribution of our products and has the power to require the recall of such products. FDA regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies may adversely affect us. The FDA may inspect our facilities and operations to determine whether we are in compliance with various regulations relating to specification, development, documentation, validation, testing, quality control and product labeling. If the FDA determines that we are in violation of such regulations, it could impose civil penalties, including fines, recall or seize products and, in extreme cases, impose criminal sanctions. We market our products both domestically and internationally. International regulatory bodies have established varying regulations governing product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Our inability or failure to comply with the varying regulations, or the imposition of new regulations, could restrict our ability to sell our products internationally and could adversely affect our business. The imposition of requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, could adversely affect our business. The HIPAA regulations require our customers to observe several requirements for the privacy and security of the protected health information (PHI) of their patients. Although the products and services we provide may technically not be covered under the HIPAA regulations, we may have access to PHI while working with our customers and they therefore routinely request that we sign “business associate” agreements with them. A “business associate” is a person or entity that performs certain functions or activities that involve the use or disclosure of protected health 15 Table of Contents information on behalf of, or that provides services to, a covered entity. By law, the HIPAA Privacy Rule applies only to covered entities—health plans, healthcare clearinghouses, and certain healthcare providers. However, most healthcare providers do not carry out all of their healthcare activities and functions by themselves. Instead, they often use the services of a variety of other persons or businesses. The Privacy Rule allows covered providers and health plans to disclose protected health information to these “business associates” if the providers or plans obtain satisfactory assurances that the business associate will use the information only for the purposes for which it was engaged by the covered entity, will safeguard the information from misuse, and will help the covered entity comply with some of the covered entity’s duties under the Privacy Rule. Covered entities may disclose protected health information to an entity in its role as a business associate only to help the covered entity carry out its healthcare functions—not for the business associate’s independent use or purposes, except as needed for the proper management and administration of the business associate. These agreements are necessary for us in the normal course of servicing and supporting our products and may require us to incur liabilities if we disclose protected health information in a manner not allowed under any respective agreement. Our potential liabilities may include indemnifying our customer against any damages resulting from the disclosure. If we are not willing to or are unable to enter into a business associate agreement with current and potential customers, such customers may not purchase our products or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to various federal and state “fraud and abuse” laws, and if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties, which may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the following: · the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs (such as Medicare and Medicaid); · the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits anyone from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the federal government; · HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program; · the federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and · state law equivalents to these federal laws, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items, and may not contain identical exceptions. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations and are subject to further legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, fines and other penalties, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely principally on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third 16 Table of Contents parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face the risk of product liability claims, and our product liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage may not be adequate to pay products liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of medical devices, including those which may arise from the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. Although we have product liability and errors and omissions insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Further, if additional products are approved for marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Recruiting and retaining talented personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations and, as a result, our business might not succeed. Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party reimbursement. A reduction or other change in reimbursement from third parties could negatively affect our business. Our products are purchased by hospitals, clinics, imaging centers and other users, which bill various third-party payers, such as government health programs, private health insurance plans, managed care organizations and other similar programs, for the healthcare goods and services provided to their patients. There are currently Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, reimbursement codes that describe most of the diagnostic procedures that use our products. However, the amount of reimbursement from third-party payers varies by site of service and geographic location and is subject to change. Payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that a product used in a procedure was not used in accordance with established payer protocol regarding cost-effective treatment methods or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical services and, in some instances, have put pressure on service providers to lower their prices or reduce their services. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by third-party healthcare payers. Third-party payers may not consider as cost effective the procedures in which our products are used. Reimbursement for such procedures may not be available or, if available, payers’ low reimbursement levels may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In addition, there have been and may continue to be changes and proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb further these costs in the future. For example, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or the DRA, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, imposes caps on Medicare payment rates for certain imaging services, including MR and PET, furnished in 17 Table of Contents physicians’ offices and other non-hospital based settings. Under the caps, payments for specified imaging services cannot exceed the hospital outpatient payment rates for these services. This change applies to services furnished on or after January 1, 2007. The DRA also codifies a reduction in Medicare payments for certain multiple images performed on contiguous body parts, which was previously established in the 2006 Physician Fee Schedule final rule. A failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain reimbursement from third-party payers, changes in third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures using our products, or legislative action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare reform may negatively impact our business. The levels of revenue and profitability of medical technology companies may be affected by the efforts of government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. In the United States, there has been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal, state and private proposals to control healthcare costs. These proposals include legislative, regulatory and other initiatives and may contain measures intended to control public and private spending on healthcare as well as to provide universal public access to the healthcare system. If enacted, these proposals may result in a substantial restructuring of the healthcare delivery system. For example, the Congressional Budget Office has issued a report suggesting that radiology benefit managers could require pre-authorization, which could decrease the demand for imaging services. Significant changes in the nation’s healthcare system could have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or limit or eliminate our ability to sell to certain of our significant market segments. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade, and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the medical device industry as well as among our customers, including healthcare providers. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and limitations on our ability to sell to important market segments, as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts, such as the Veterans Administration in the United States, continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our healthcare provider customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur goodwill impairment charges that adversely affect our operating results. We review goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired and that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We operate as one reporting unit and therefore compare our book value to our market value (consisting of market capitalization plus a control premium of 25%). If the market value exceeds the book value, goodwill is generally considered not to be impaired. After December 31, 2008, declines in our stock price have resulted in our book value at times exceeding our market value. If such a condition continues for a sustained period, our goodwill may be impaired. The balance of goodwill was $9.1 million as of December 31, 2008, which if impaired would have an adverse affect on our financial position and operating results. If we do not reach certain milestones in the implementation of our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, we may incur impairment charges for all or a portion of the amounts we have capitalized, which could adversely affect our operating results. In 2007, we began the implementation of an ERP system. The ERP system is intended to replace numerous disconnected business management software applications and link the data contained within these disconnected systems to enable better management of our business and derive more useful data for various business functions, such as sales, marketing, finance and customer support. Phase 1 of the implementation, which related to the replacement of our general ledger, was completed in 2007. The related capitalized costs are being depreciated over seven years and, as of December 31, 2008, the net book value of Phase 1 was $1.0 million. Phase 2 of the implementation, which consists of replacing our various customer relationship management and order processing systems, has yet to be completed or placed in service. As of December 31, 2008, Phase 2 capitalized costs were $2.9 million. We will continue implementation of the ERP during 2009, and upon 18 Table of Contents completion of the implementation, the cost will be depreciated over seven years. If we do not reach certain milestones in the implementation schedule, we may be required to write-off all or a portion of the amounts capitalized, which could negatively affect our operating results. The disruption in the global financial markets and the economic downturn may adversely impact customer purchasing and payment patterns. During 2008, we were affected by the general decline in the U.S. economy, which resulted in contracted capital spending by U.S. hospitals and lower interest rates on our cash and investments. Disruptions in the financial markets and the related economic downturn could also negatively impact customer purchasing and payment patterns and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances as to the length or severity of this period of disruption and the related economic downturn. We may issue shares of preferred stock without the consent of our holders of common stock, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without any action by the holders of our common stock, to establish the rights and preferences of up to 5,000,000 shares of currently undesignated preferred stock. These shares of preferred stock could possess voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the common stock or dilute their ownership rights, and it may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Vital Images. No shares of preferred stock or other senior equity securities are currently designated, and currently we have no plan to designate or issue any such securities. We are subject to certain laws and plans which may discourage takeover attempts that could be beneficial for shareholders. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. These provisions may deter or discourage takeover attempts and other changes in control that are not approved by our Board of Directors, and they may have a depressive effect on any market for our stock. As a result, our shareholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at the higher prices typically available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal. In addition, these provisions may have the effect of permitting our current directors to retain their positions and place them in a better position to resist changes that our shareholders may wish to make if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. We have never paid any cash dividends and, therefore, our shareholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in our common stock is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Consequently, our shareholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares at a profit. Our directors may not be held personally liable for certain actions, which could discourage shareholder suits against them. As permitted by Minnesota law, our Articles of Incorporation provide that members of our Board of Directors shall not be personally liable to our company or our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with certain exceptions. These provisions may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by shareholders on behalf of our company against a director. In addition, our Bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 