ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK TRADING OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS LIMITED. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or “OTC Bulletin Board.” This has an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. BECAUSE IT IS A “PENNY STOCK” IT CAN BE DIFFICULT TO SELL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock is a “penny stock.” Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. The penny stock rules may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of our stock. Because of the rules, there is less trading in penny stocks. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, you may not always be able to sell our shares of common stock publicly at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ARE HELD IN RESERVE FOR VARIOUS AGREEMENTS AND THEIR ISSUANCE COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. The issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and make it more difficult for you to sell our securities at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. As of April 13, 2009, we had 144,974,309 shares of common stock and 7,726,200 Class C Redeemable Warrants issued and outstanding. Furthermore, we have reserved for issuance 16,643,500 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options, approximately 54,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants, approximately 19,600,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of convertible debt, and may be required to issue up to an aggregate of 50,000,000 shares of common stock pursuant to a consulting agreement, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions under that agreement. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH CASH TO FUND OPERATIONS, DEBT REDUCTION OR POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS DURING 2009. As of April 10, 2009, we had only approximately $25,000 of cash and cash equivalents on hand. Since we do not expect to generate any revenue from operations in 2009, we will be required to raise additional capital in financing transactions in order to satisfy our expected cash expenditures. Included in the expected cash expenditures is approximately $2,400,000 in debt that will become due during 2009, assuming some or all of such debt is not converted into equity prior to such date. Accordingly, we will require additional funds during 2009. 19 We continue to seek additional opportunities relating to our mining operations, and our ability to seek out such opportunities, perform due diligence, and, if successful, acquire such properties or opportunities requires additional capital. We expect to raise such additional capital by selling shares of our capital stock or by borrowing money. However, we currently have only a limited number of available shares of common stock authorized for issuance, and will require shareholder approval to increase our authorized capitalization to raise such additional capital. Additionally, such additional capital may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Further, if we increase our capitalization and sell additional shares of our capital stock, your ownership position in our Company will be subject to dilution. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be forced to cease our search for additional business opportunities, reduce our operating expenditures or to cease operations altogether. WE HAVE VERY LIMITED ASSETS IN OPERATION. After we completed the sales of our Hosted Solutions Business and our Accounting Software Business in 2003, we became an exploration stage company and do not anticipate having any revenues from operations until an economic mineral deposit is discovered or unless we complete other acquisitions or joint ventures with business models that produce such revenues. As of April 13, 2009, we own the past producing Bates-Hunter Mine in Colorado, a 35% equity interest in Kwagga Gold (Barbados) Limited, which holds rights to properties located in South Africa (the FSC Project) through its wholly owned subsidiary and certain rights in the Vianey Concession in Mexico (currently no exploration activities are being conducted at any of these three properties). None of these properties may ever produce any significant mineral deposits. Furthermore, on March 17, 2009, we consummated the acquisition of the Nanjing Sudan Mining Co, Ltd and the Xiaonanshan Mining Co, Ltd in a joint venture transaction with London Mining Plc. We hold a 50% equity interest in the joint venture, but London Mining holds a 99% priority dividend and certain other preferences until the return of their investment. Both the Xiaonanshan mine and the Nanjing Sudan processing plant are currently operating businesses in the PRC. WE ANTICIPATE INCURRING LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Since becoming an exploration stage company in May 2003 through December 31, 2008, we have incurred an aggregate net loss of $52,276,001. We expect operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future and may never be able to operate profitably. OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have had net losses for each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and we have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008. Since the financial statements for each of these periods were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, in the view of our independent auditors, these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, since we do not expect to generate any significant revenues from operations for the foreseeable future, our ability to continue as a going concern depends, in large part, on our ability to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing transactions. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to discontinue our business. 20 CERTAIN OF OUR AGREEMENTS REQUIRE PAYMENTS IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND ARE SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. Certain of our acquisition agreements (including certain of those we hold in our subsidiaries) and other agreements we have entered require payments in foreign currencies, including the Canadian Dollar, the Chinese Renminbi and the South African Rand. It is possible that we will enter into other agreements for future acquisitions or work relating to our various mining interests that will require payment in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, can affect the actual amounts of these payments and potentially may be in excess of the amounts we have budgeted for payment of these fees and other payments. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO CONTINUE TO FUND OUR CURRENT EXPLORATION PROJECT INTERESTS OR TO ACQUIRE INTERESTS IN OTHER EXPLORATION PROJECTS. Substantial additional financing will be needed in order to fund beyond the current exploration programs underway or to potentially complete further acquisitions or complete other acquisitions or joint ventures with other business models. Our means of acquiring investment capital is limited to private equity and debt transactions. We have no significant sources of currently available funds to engage in additional exploration and development. Without significant additional capital, we will be unable to fund exploration of our current property interests or acquire interests in other mineral exploration projects that may become available. See “—Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition – We Currently Do Not Have Enough Cash to Fund Operations During 2009.” OUR PERFORMANCE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN MINERAL PRICES. The profitability of the exploration projects could be significantly affected by changes in the market price of minerals. Demand for minerals can be influenced by economic conditions, attractiveness as an investment vehicle and the relative strength of the US Dollar and local investment currencies. Other factors include the level of interest rates, exchange rates, inflation and political stability. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. In particular, mine production and the willingness of third parties such as central banks to sell or lease gold affects the supply of gold. Worldwide production levels also affect mineral prices. In addition, the price of gold, silver and iron ore have on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes due to speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may adversely affect the value of any discoveries made at the sites with which we are involved. MINERAL EXPLORATION IS EXTREMELY COMPETITIVE. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral properties available for claim staking, lease or other acquisition in the areas where we contemplate participating in exploration activities. We compete with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than we possess, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Our ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on our ability to develop our present properties, but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for future mineral exploration. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. THE NATURE OF MINERAL EXPLORATION IS INHERENTLY RISKY. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial risks, which even experience and knowledge may not eliminate, regardless of the amount of careful evaluation applied to the process. Very few properties are ultimately developed into producing mines. Whether a gold or other mineral deposit will become commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including: · financing costs; 21 · proximity to infrastructure; · the particular attributes of the deposit, such as its size and grade; and · governmental regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, infrastructure, land use, importing and exporting and environmental protection. The outcome of any of these factors may prevent us from receiving an adequate return on invested capital. CERTAIN OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH REGARD TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS TO WHICH WE OR OUR AFFILIATES MAY BE PARTIES. H. Vance White, who is the Chairman of our Board of Directors, is both an officer and director of Hawk Uranium Inc, (f/k/a Hawk Precious Minerals Inc.) a junior exploration company, and a partner in Brooks & White Associates, an unincorporated Canadian partnership that provides management, financial and investor relations services to junior mineral resource exploration companies. As a result of his positions with other companies that may, from time to time, compete with us, Mr. White may have conflicts of interest to the extent the other companies with which they are affiliated acquire rights in exploration projects that may be suitable for us to acquire. Stephen D. King, our Chief Executive Officer, and William B. Green, our President of Asia Operations, are both directors of China Global Mining Resources (BVI) Ltd. (“CGMR”), our joint venture entity with London Mining Plc, and the subsidiaries of CGMR. Additionally, Mr. Green is the principal of Green Earth Mining Resources, a Hong Kong corporation that will serve as operator of CGMR’s operations in the PRC. Mr. King serves as a consultant to Green Earth. As a result of Mr. King’s and Mr. Green’s affiliation with each and any of CGMR, its subsidiaries and Green Earth may result in conflicts of interest with us. THE OPERATORS OF OUR EXPLORATION PROJECTS MAY NOT HAVE ALL NECESSARY TITLE TO THE MINING EXPLORATION RIGHTS. We expect that Kwagga (Barbados), Kwagga (Proprietary) and Journey will have good and proper right, title and interest in and to the respective mining exploration rights they currently own, have optioned or intend to acquire and that they will explore and develop. Such rights may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or interests or undetected claims or interests, which could materially impair our ability to participate in the development of our projects. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including failure to pay taxes and to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the exploration rights are held. LAWS GOVERNING MINERAL RIGHTS OWNERSHIP HAVE CHANGED IN SOUTH AFRICA. The South African mining industry has undergone a series of significant changes culminating in the enactment of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act No. 28 of 2002 (“the Act”) on May 1, 2004. The Act legislates the abolition of private mineral rights in South Africa and replaces them with a system of state licensing based on the patrimony over minerals, as is the case with the bulk of minerals in other established mining jurisdictions such as Canada and Australia. On May 3, 2004 the Department of Minerals and Energy (the “DME”) announced that it was seeking legal advice on the implications of the Act in light of South Africa’s international agreements. Holders of old-order mining rights, of the type held by Kwagga (Proprietary), are required within five years of the May 1, 2004 commencement date, to apply for conversion of their old order rights into new order mining rights in terms of the Act. Old order mining rights will continue to be in force during the conversion period, subject to the terms and conditions under which they were granted. Once a new order right is granted, security of tenure is guaranteed for a period of up to 30 years, subject to ongoing compliance with the conditions under which the right has been granted. A mining right may be renewed for further periods of up to 30 years at a time, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. 22 In order to be able to convert old order mining rights to new order mining rights, a holder must primarily: apply in the correct form for conversion at the relevant office of the DME before May 1, 2009; submit a prescribed social and labor plan; and undertake to “give effect to” the black economic empowerment and socio-economic objectives of the Act (the “Objectives”) and set out the manner in which it will give effect to the Objectives. In general, the Objectives are embodied in the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter which was signed by the DME, the South African Chamber of Mines and others on October 11, 2002 (the “Charter”), and which was followed on February 18, 2003 by the release of the appendix to the Charter known as the Scorecard. The Charter and Scorecard have since been published for information during August 2004. The Charter is based on seven key principles, two of which are focused on ownership targets for historically disadvantaged South Africans (“HDSAs”) and beneficiation, and five of which are operationally oriented and cover areas focused on improving conditions for HDSAs. Regarding ownership targets, the Charter (as read with the Scorecard) requires each mining company to achieve the following HDSA ownership targets for the purpose of qualifying for the grant of new order rights: (i) 15% ownership by HDSAs in that company or its attributable units of production by May 1, 2009, and (ii) 26% ownership by HDSAs in that company or its attributable units of production by May 1, 2014. The Charter states that such transfers must take place in a transparent manner and for fair market value. It also states that the South African mining industry will assist HDSA companies in securing financing to fund HDSA participation, in the amount of ZAR100 billion within the first five years. The Charter does not specify the nature of the assistance to be provided. At present, the financial implications and market-related risks brought about by the various pieces of the new legislation (including the Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Bill) cannot be assessed. It is not clear when the next draft of the Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Bill will be released. The Government has, however, indicated that no royalties will be payable until 2009. Material impacts on both the ownership structure and operational costs at the FSC Project are possible. Kwagga (Barbados) and AfriOre continue to explore their options and monitor the implementation and interpretation of the Act and the progress of other ancillary regulations and legislation. DUE TO LEGISLATION ENACTED IN SOUTH AFRICA, KWAGGA (PROPRIETARY) WILL BE REQUIRED TO SELL A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF ITS STOCK, WHICH WOULD DILUTE OUR EQUITY POSITION IN KWAGGA. Kwagga (Barbados) and AfriOre are actively engaged in discussions with DME officials and others to ensure that Kwagga (Barbados) fulfills the ownership requirements for conversion under the Act; however, the finalization of the means of achieving that end will require greater certainty regarding the operation and interpretation of the Act and pending related legislation. In accordance with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African mining industry and under the terms of the new shareholders agreement, as amended August 30, 2004, Kwagga (Proprietary) will offer up to 28 percent of its capital stock at fair market value to a HDSA investor group. Any investment by such a group will dilute our ownership of Kwagga (Proprietary) and, accordingly, the right to receive profits generated from the FSC Project, if any. DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Subsequent to our fiscal year end, CGMR, our 50% owned joint venture with London Mining, completed the acquisition of Nanjing Sudan Mining Co, Ltd. and the Xiaonanshan Mining Co, Ltd., which constitute an operating iron ore mine and processing plant in the Peoples Republic of China (“PRC”). Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for CGMR’s products and materially and adversely affect our investments in the PRC. Accordingly, our financial condition and CGMR’s results of operations and prospects could be affected significantly by economic, political and/or legal developments in the PRC. 23 The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us and CGMR. For example, CGMR’s financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to obtain distributions from CGMR’s operations, may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in applicable tax regulations. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect CGMR’s business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE CHINESE LEGAL SYSTEM COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US. We could conduct a substantial portion of our business through one or more China-based entities or through third-party arrangements which may be subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE ANY REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. Foreign exchange transactions by companies under China’s capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities. There may be some restrictions for us to receive funds from the PRC iron ore joint venture. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 ITEM 