ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK TRADING OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS LIMITED. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or “OTC Bulletin Board.” This has an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. BECAUSE IT IS A “PENNY STOCK” IT CAN BE DIFFICULT TO SELL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock is a “penny stock.” Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. The penny stock rules may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of our stock. Because of the rules, there is less trading in penny stocks. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, you may not always be able to sell our shares of common stock publicly at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ARE HELD IN RESERVE FOR VARIOUS AGREEMENTS AND THEIR ISSUANCE COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. The issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and make it more difficult for you to sell our securities at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. As of April 13, 2010, we had 169,112,367 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Furthermore, we have reserved for issuance (i) 15,643,500 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, (ii) 78,046,403 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and (iii) an aggregate of 29,513,304 shares of common stock issuable under outstanding convertible debt agreements. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH CASH TO FUND OPERATIONS, DEBT REDUCTION OR POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS DURING 2010. As of April 14, 2010, we had only approximately $113,000 of cash and cash equivalents on hand. Since we do not expect to generate any revenue from operations in 2010, we will be required to raise additional capital in financing transactions in order to satisfy our expected cash expenditures. Included in the expected cash expenditures is approximately $13,500,000 in debt that will become due during 2010, assuming some or all of such debt is not converted into equity prior to such date. Accordingly, we will require additional funds during 2010. 13 We continue to seek additional opportunities relating to our mining operations, and our ability to seek out such opportunities, perform due diligence, and, if successful, acquire such properties or opportunities requires additional capital. We expect to raise such additional capital by selling shares of our capital stock or by borrowing money. However, we currently have only a limited number of available shares of common stock authorized for issuance, and will require shareholder approval to increase our authorized capitalization to raise such additional capital. Additionally, such additional capital may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Further, if we increase our capitalization and sell additional shares of our capital stock, your ownership position in our Company will be subject to dilution. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be forced to cease our search for additional business opportunities, reduce our operating expenditures or to cease operations altogether. WE HAVE VERY LIMITED ASSETS IN OPERATION. After we sold all of our prior business models in 2003, we became an exploration stage company and do not anticipate having any revenues from operations until an economic mineral deposit is put into production or unless we complete other acquisitions or joint ventures with business models that produce such revenues. As of April 13, 2010, we hold (i) an equity interest of approximately 94% of Standard Gold, Inc. (f/k/a Princeton Acquisitions, Inc.) which owns a past producing gold mine in Colorado (Bates-Hunter Mine), (ii) a 35% equity interest in Kwagga Gold (Barbados) Limited, which holds prospecting rights in South Africa (FSC Project) and (iii) certain rights in the Vianey Concession in Mexico. None of these properties may ever produce any significant mineral deposits. With respect to our equity interest in CGMR (BVI), due to the disproportionate distributions stipulated in the LM Shareholders’ Agreement, our proportional 1% return on CGMR (BVI) assets utilized in the operations at the mine and processing plant, provides little return to the Company at this time and there can be no guarantees that it may ever result in significant returns to the Company. WE ANTICIPATE INCURRING LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Since becoming an exploration stage company in May 2003 through December 31, 2009, we have incurred an aggregate net loss of $67,654,919. We expect operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future and may never be able to operate profitably. OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have had net losses for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and we have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2009. Since the financial statements for each of these periods were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, in the view of our independent auditors, these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, since we do not expect to generate any significant revenues from operations for the foreseeable future, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to raise the required additional capital or debt financing to meet short and long-term operating requirements. We believe that private placements of equity capital and debt financing may be adequate to fund our long-term operating requirements. We may also encounter business endeavors that require significant cash commitments or unanticipated problems or expenses that could result in a requirement for additional cash. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders could be reduced, and such securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common stock. Additional financing may not be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of prospective business endeavors or opportunities, which could significantly and materially restrict our operations. We are continuing to pursue external financing alternatives to improve our working capital position. If we are unable to obtain the necessary capital, we may have to cease operations. 14 CERTAIN OF OUR AGREEMENTS REQUIRE PAYMENTS IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND ARE SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. Certain of our acquisition agreements (including certain of those we hold in our subsidiaries) and other agreements we have entered require payments in foreign currencies, including the Canadian Dollar and the South African Rand. It is possible that we will enter into other agreements for future acquisitions or work relating to our various mining interests that will require payment in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, can affect the actual amounts of these payments and potentially may be in excess of the amounts we have budgeted for payment of these fees and other payments. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO CONTINUE TO FUND OUR CURRENT EXPLORATION PROJECT INTERESTS OR TO ACQUIRE INTERESTS IN OTHER EXPLORATION PROJECTS. Substantial additional financing will be needed in order to fund beyond the current exploration programs underway or to potentially complete further acquisitions or complete other acquisitions or joint ventures with other business models. Our means of acquiring investment capital is limited to private equity and debt transactions. We have no significant sources of currently available funds to engage in additional exploration and development. Without significant additional capital, we will be unable to fund exploration of our current property interests or acquire interests in other mineral exploration projects that may become available. See “—Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition – We Currently Do Not Have Enough Cash to Fund Operations During 2010.” OUR PERFORMANCE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN MINERAL PRICES. The profitability of the exploration projects could be significantly affected by changes in the market price of minerals. Demand for minerals can be influenced by economic conditions, attractiveness as an investment vehicle and the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar and local investment currencies. Other factors include the level of interest rates, exchange rates, inflation and political stability. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. In particular, mine production and the willingness of third parties such as central banks to sell or lease gold affects the supply of gold. Worldwide production levels also affect mineral prices. In addition, the price of gold, silver and iron ore have on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes due to speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may adversely affect the value of any discoveries made at the sites with which we are involved. MINERAL EXPLORATION IS EXTREMELY COMPETITIVE. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral properties available for claim staking, lease or other acquisition in the areas where we contemplate participating in exploration activities. We compete with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than we possess, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Our ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on our ability to develop our present properties, but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for future mineral exploration. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. 15 THE NATURE OF MINERAL EXPLORATION IS INHERENTLY RISKY. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial risks, which even experience and knowledge may not eliminate, regardless of the amount of careful evaluation applied to the process. Very few properties are ultimately developed into producing mines. Whether a gold or other mineral deposit will become commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including: · financing costs; · proximity to infrastructure; · the particular attributes of the deposit, such as its size and grade; and · governmental regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, infrastructure, land use, importing and exporting and environmental protection. The outcome of any of these factors may prevent us from receiving an adequate return on invested capital. CERTAIN OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH REGARD TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS TO WHICH WE OR OUR AFFILIATES MAY BE PARTIES. Stephen D. King, our Chief Executive Officer, is a director of CGMR (BVI) and Dr. Clyde Smith, our President, is a representative on the CGMR (BVI) Management Committee. Additionally, Messrs. King and Smith serve as paid consultants to CGMR (BVI). As a result of Messrs. King and Smith’s affiliation with CGMR (BVI) and its subsidiaries, conflicts of interest may arise with the Company. THE OPERATORS OF OUR EXPLORATION PROJECTS MAY NOT HAVE ALL NECESSARY TITLE TO THE MINING EXPLORATION RIGHTS. We expect that Kwagga (Barbados), Kwagga (Proprietary), Journey and CGMR (BVI) will have good and proper right, title and interest in and to the respective mining exploration rights they currently own, have optioned or intend to acquire and that they will explore and develop. Such rights may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or interests or undetected claims or interests, which could materially impair our ability to participate in the development of our projects. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including failure to pay taxes and to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the exploration rights are held. LAWS GOVERNING MINERAL RIGHTS OWNERSHIP HAVE CHANGED IN SOUTH AFRICA. The South African mining industry has undergone a series of significant changes culminating in the enactment of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act No. 28 of 2002 (“the Act”) on May 1, 2004. The Act legislates the abolition of private mineral rights in South Africa and replaces them with a system of state licensing based on the patrimony over minerals, as is the case with the bulk of minerals in other established mining jurisdictions such as Canada and Australia. Holders of old-order mining rights are required to apply for conversion of their old order rights into new order mining rights in terms of the Act. Once a new order right is granted, security of tenure is guaranteed for a period of up to 30 years, subject to ongoing compliance with the conditions under which the right has been granted. A mining right may be renewed for further periods of up to 30 years at a time, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. We will be required to apply for new order rights before we can further explore in South Africa and at this time, can not estimate the costs involved to proceed. DUE TO LEGISLATION ENACTED IN SOUTH AFRICA, KWAGGA (PROPRIETARY) WILL BE REQUIRED TO SELL A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF ITS STOCK, WHICH WOULD DILUTE OUR EQUITY POSITION IN KWAGGA. In accordance with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African mining industry, Kwagga (Proprietary) must sell 26% of its capital stock at fair market value to a Black Economic Empowerment investor by 2014. Any investment by such a group will dilute our ownership of Kwagga (Proprietary) and, accordingly, the right to receive profits generated from the FSC Project, if any. 16 DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us and CGMR (BVI). For example, CGMR (BVI)’s ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in applicable tax regulations. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE ANY REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. Foreign exchange transactions by companies under China’s capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities. There may be restrictions for us to receive any funds from the PRC iron ore joint venture. ITEM 