ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In the normal course of business in an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations and portfolio of investments, we may from time-to-time issue certain statements, either in writing or orally, that contain or may contain forward-looking information. Generally, these statements relate to our business plans or strategies or portfolio companies, projected or anticipated benefits or consequences of such plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits of new or follow-on investments made by or to be made by us, or projections involving anticipated purchases or sales of securities or other aspects of our operating results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. As noted elsewhere in this report, our operations and portfolio of investments are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks, and other influences, many of which are outside our control, and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect the results of our operations, or our NAV, the market price of our common stock, and whether any forward-looking statements made by us ultimately prove to be accurate. Investing in SCPS involves a number of significant risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective. In addition, the following risk factors are applicable to an investment in our common stock. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Investments in the Company by new shareholders will be diluted immediately. Page 16 of 94 Some of our present shareholders may have acquired an interest in our common stock at a total cost less than the total cost that newer investors will pay for their shares. Therefore, the newer investors may bear a greater proportion of the risk of loss (measured by the cost of shares). As of December 31, 2006, there were 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and after the reverse split of one share for each twenty shares outstanding and the purchase of 2,260,177 shares there were 7,740,110 common shares outstanding. We may sell additional equity in the future that may further dilute the value of existing shareholders' investment. Reductions in the price of our stock resulting from the performance of our portfolio or other market conditions might result in stock being sold to new investors, including management, at prices below the price paid by existing shareholders. Senior management may be granted the right, and others may have the right, under certain circumstances, to acquire additional shares of our common stock at a price equal to the market price as it exists at a point in the future. If such a grant of a right occurred at a time when the price of the stock has fallen relative to the current market value and falls below the price paid by existing shareholders, management might be given the right to purchase stock at a price below existing shareholders' cost. In either of these cases, the value of existing shareholders' investment would be further diluted. Limitation of liability and indemnification of management. While limitations of liability and indemnification are themselves limited, we have instituted provisions in our bylaws indemnifying, to the extent permitted, against and not making management liable for, any loss or liability incurred in connection with our affairs, so long as such loss or liability arose from acts performed in good faith and not involving any fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct. Therefore, to the extent that these provisions provide any protection to management, that protection may limit the right of a shareholder to collect damages from members of management. Management is accountable to the shareholder as a fiduciary and, consequently, members of management are required to exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. Our business may become subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels. The value of securities we own may be adversely impacted by subsequent regulatory changes. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Our current investment strategy includes the purchase of unregistered securities in both private companies as well as private placements offered by public companies. We are able to purchase securities pursuant to exemptions to the registration requirements of United States Federal securities laws. Changes in such laws or their interpretation could adversely impact our ability to resell such securities which would have a negative effect on the value of such securities as well as impact our overall investment strategy and the liquidity of our investments. In such an event, we may need to reformulate our investment strategy or we may choose to liquidate. Page 17 of 94 We cannot guarantee paying dividends to our stockholders. We are allowed by our articles of incorporation and/or by-laws to pay dividends to our stockholders. However, there can be no guarantee we will have sufficient revenues to pay dividends during any period. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Investors in need of liquidity through the payment of dividends should refrain from common stock which does not have a dividend requirement. Investing in our shares may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors, may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. These factors include: o significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; o changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; o our common stock is unlikely to be followed by any market analysts, and there may be few institutions acting as market makers for the common stock which can adversely affect its price; o loss of or inability to qualify for RIC status or BDC status; o changes in earnings or variations in operating results; o changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; o any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; Page 18 of 94 o departure of one or more of our key personnel; o operating performance of companies comparable to us; o potential legal and regulatory matters; o changes in prevailing interest rates; o general economic trends and other external factors; and o loss of a major funding source. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we have 7,740,110 shares of common stock outstanding. We plan to raise funds in the future through sales of our common stock pursuant to Regulation E, which provides in part for issuance of freely trading shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the availability of such shares for sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. Our Board of Directors also has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of our authorized but unissued shares. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of shareholders and may, subject to the regulations pertaining to the minimum prices for which shares may be sold, further dilute the book value of the common stock. These issuances may also serve to enhance existing management's ability to maintain control of the Company. We have the right, but do not intend to issue senior securities in the future, including debt. If we were to reverse that decision and offer for sale and/or issue senior securities, you will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. You will be exposed to increased risk of loss if we incur debt to make investments. If we do incur debt, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use debt. o Our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio were not at least 200% and any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for dividends to our common stockholders. o It is likely that any debt we incur will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. o We and you as shareholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing our senior securities. Page 19 of 94 o Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. Our investments may require us to raise additional capital on different terms. We will require additional capital in the future. For additional requirements, we may raise capital by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, and when we do, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. In addition, any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our existing equity (although we do not intend to sell debt or preferred equity interests). Our ability to raise capital as a BDC is limited by the requirement that we not sell shares below the NAV/S without approval of a majority of our shareholders. While we do not anticipate that the NAV/S calculation will ever result in a negative number or a nominally positive number, the Company would be severely limited in its ability to sell shares if such a negative number or a nominally positive number were to be the result of a NAV/S calculation. Increases in market interest rates may both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital. We expect that we may offer loans to our portfolio companies with interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We will generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, due to changes in capital needs or otherwise, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our investment adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest or dividend rates payable on the debt or equity securities we acquire, performance and/or default rate on securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to Page 20 of 94 which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities, in which we invest, may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value, and the issuers of debt securities, in which we invest, may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our investments, and any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any losses we experience. Your influence in matters requiring shareholder action will be subject to the probability that most shareholders will follow management's direction. There is only one major shareholder with an interest of more than ten percent and no consortium of shareholders has been identified with a block of control or who would likely exercise voting control over all matters that may be submitted for approval by our shareholders. Without such a controlling block, management positions will be the most likely to be presented to shareholders and more likely to influence shareholder decisions (assuming a fact that shareholders will likely "vote with" management). Therefore, while the number of shares controlled by the officers and directors is less than a majority, their position of control is material and significant. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or may deter takeover attempts. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. The existence of these provisions may reduce any premiums over market price that a potential acquirer would offer to shareholders for their shares of our common stock and may discourage attempts to gain control without the consent of the Board of Directors. While shares must be sold for cash or other securities, the Board of Directors might choose to sell shares to a party with views consistent with those of management further limiting the likelihood of a change in control. GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES BDCs generally require substantial amounts of time to realize the benefits from investments. Venture capital investments typically take from four to eight years from the date of initial investment to reach a state of maturity at which liquidation can be considered practical. We have not completed funding of our current portfolio company and we anticipate that there may be an additional period of time ranging from three to six months before we have obtained funding and completed investing that funding in our portfolio companies for our first round of equity Page 21 of 94 investments. In light of the foregoing, it is unlikely that any significant distributions of the proceeds from the liquidation of equity investments will be made for several years after inception, if at all. Our present senior management team has limited experience managing a business development company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of privately held or thinly traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. The lack of experience of our senior management team in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. Within the BDC format, the information about deals and deal flow generated by our senior management in connection with their investment and portfolio management activities will have a significant impact on our future success as a BDC. The senior management team will evaluate, structure, negotiate terms and close investments on those terms, monitor and service our investments and their abilities to perform these functions as members of a BDC will also have a significant impact on our future success as a BDC. We will be wholly dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of all of our investments on the diligence and skill of our management, acting under the supervision of our Board of Directors. None of these individuals has substantial experience, within or under a BDC investment and management format, in acquiring and investing in growth stage companies, the negotiation of the terms of such investments and the monitoring of such investments after they are made. In addition, we will engage outside consultants and professionals known to management to assist in evaluating and monitoring portfolio companies and maintaining regulatory compliance. While we believe that our management possesses certain fundamental business skills that will increase our likelihood to succeed, our management team has limited experience operating a BDC and must be considered as inexperienced when it comes to the both the day to day operations of an investment company and the management of investments. We intend to rely on the general skills and business acumen of our management team as well as engaging other professionals and consultants from time to time to insure that it gains the expertise to manage a BDC. We may change our investment policies without further shareholder approval. Although we are limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified portfolio companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, nor the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. We may allocate the net proceeds from stock sales in ways with which you may not agree. Page 22 of 94 We will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds of our stock sales. We may use the net proceeds in ways with which you may not agree or for investments other than those contemplated at the time we sell the stock, unless such change in the use of proceeds is subject to stockholders' approval or prohibited by law. Our investments may not generate sufficient income to cover our operations. While we intend to make investments into those qualified companies that will provide the greatest overall return on our investment, we are required to make investments into those companies which, whether due to lack of experience or financial instability (including insolvency), may present the greatest risk. This is in conformity with the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980 which amended the 1940 Act and permitted the creation of BDC's. However, certain of those investments may fail, in which case we will not receive any return on our investment. In addition, our investments may not generate income, either in the immediate future, or at all. As a result, we may have to sell additional stock, or borrow money, to cover our operating expenses. The effect of such actions could cause our stock price to decline or, if we are not successful in raising additional capital, we could cease to continue as a going concern. It should be noted that our operational costs are higher as a result of our having elected to be governed as a BDC. Shares in a BDC will likely trade at a discount. Shares of many closed-end investment companies and most BDC's frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value. This characteristic is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value could decrease as a result of investment activities. This likely discount in share pricing in the market may pose a greater risk to investors expecting to sell their shares in a relatively short period after purchase. We cannot predict whether our shares will trade at prices above, at or below our net asset value. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital. We have the right to issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities," only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities, the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional shares of common stock and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. In addition, any future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. As a business development company regulated under provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock (1) if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and (2) our Page 23 of 94 stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any sales load). In addition, we may in the future seek to securitize or hypothecate loans previously made by us to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize or hypothecate these loans, we may contribute a pool of such loans to a wholly-owned subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools although we would expect to retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. An inability to successfully securitize and sell all of part of such a loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses because the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. Our election to be governed as a BDC will require us to comply with significant regulatory requirements. We elected to be regulated as a Business Development Company under the 1940 Act and be subject to Sections 54 through 65 of said Act. As a result of this election, the Company is subject to the provisions of 1940 Act as it applies to BDCs as of the date of such election. Being subject to the BDC provisions requires us to meet significant numbers of regulatory and financial requirements. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and may create financial problems for us in the future. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Specifically, it must be noted that there are increased costs associated with compliance with the 1940 Act as a result of our election to become a BDC. These costs include costs associated with the increased demand for compliance including oversight by our Chief Compliance Officer and counsel to the Company as well as increased costs due to accounting methodology and valuations which increase the time and work required of both our accounting service providers and independent auditors. These costs require us to expend capital and resources that might otherwise be used to meet the needs or opportunities relating to investments and/or our portfolio companies or other income-producing assets. If we do not remain a business development company, we might continue to be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would decrease our operating flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will successfully retain our BDC status. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. Under the 1940 Act, in order to maintain our status as a business development company, we must not acquire any assets other than "qualifying assets" unless, Page 24 of 94 at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. If we acquire mezzanine loans or dividend-paying equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets cannot be treated as qualifying assets since the issuer might not be considered an "eligible portfolio company" under the 1940 Act. "Marginable securities" include any non-equity security, pursuant to certain 1998 amendments to Regulation T under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which raises the question as to whether a private company that has outstanding debt securities would qualify as an eligible portfolio company. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities will compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in target portfolio companies. We will compete with other business development companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We may never be able to qualify for the income tax benefits offered to RICs. We will be classified as a non-diversified investment company under the 1940 Act. Until we achieve a threshold level of diversification, we will not be subject to the applicable provisions for RICs under the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore, we will not receive favorable pass through tax treatment on distributions to our shareholders. This means that we will be taxed as an ordinary corporation on our taxable income even if that income is distributed to shareholders, and all distributions out of our earnings and profits will be taxable to shareholders as dividends. Thus, this income will be subject to a double layer of taxation. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS AND PORTFOLIO COMPANIES There are costs associated with the purchase and sale of securities. While the general approach of a BDC may suggest a long-term holding position of the securities of its portfolio companies, some of our strategies may include purchases of different classes of securities or frequent trading to maximize profits and, as a consequence, risks related to turnover and costs such as brokerage commissions may be greater than for an investment in a single entity for a single class of security held for a longer period of time. Our operating expenses, including, but not limited to, fees paid to accountants, attorneys, fees to execute trades, manage investments and fees paid to any investment advisor may, in the aggregate, constitute a high percentage relative to the Page 25 of 94 expenses and fees than for an investment in a single entity for a single class of security held for a longer period of time. There are numerous risks arising from investing in securities. The securities industry is generally competitive and methods of investment strategy involve a degree of risk. We will compete with firms, including many of the larger securities and investment banking firms, which have substantially greater financial resources and research staffs. Where we purchase securities in portfolio companies for appreciation, our profitability substantially depends upon our ability to correctly assess the future price movements of stocks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately predict price movements of securities purchased. Security investments generally involve a high degree of risk. The performance of securities in which we may invest are subject to numerous factors which are neither within the control of nor predictable by us. Such factors can include a wide range of economic, political, competitive and other conditions which may affect investments in general or specific industries or companies. In recent years, the securities markets have become increasingly volatile and this volatility has increased the degree of risk. Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky and you could lose all or part of your investment. We will invest in companies that have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies will be subject to all of the business risk and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objective and the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. Most of the portfolio companies into which we intend to invest will be considered "growth stage" companies. Investments in growth stage companies offer the opportunity for significant gains. However, each investment involves a high degree of business and financial risk that can result in substantial losses. Among these are the risks associated with: o these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or of any collateral with respect to debt securities and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; o they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; o because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally not available about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If our investment adviser is unable to uncover Page 26 of 94 all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; o they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; o companies operating at a loss or with substantial variations in operating results from period to period, with the need for, but generally limited ability to provide for internally, substantial additional capital to support expansion or to achieve or maintain a competitive position; o these companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and service capabilities, and larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel; and o they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser could, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products. These factors could adversely impact the customer base of potential portfolio companies. As a result, many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay loans or meet other obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease, during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other investors or lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of loans and foreclosure on secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain Page 27 of 94 financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We intend to invest primarily in mezzanine debt and dividend-paying equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company in which we invest. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt or preferred equity investors. We may not be able to fully realize the value of any collateral securing any debt investments made into portfolio companies. Although we expect that a substantial amount of our debt investments will be protected by holding security interests in the assets of the portfolio companies, we may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing any such investments due to one or more of the following factors: o since these debt investments will be primarily made in the form of unsecured or wrap-loans, the liens on the collateral, if any, will be subordinated to those of the senior secured debt of the portfolio companies, if any. As a result, we may not be able to control remedies with respect to the collateral; o the collateral may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations under our secured loan, particularly after giving effect to the repayment of secured debt of the portfolio company that ranks senior to our loan; o bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to realize value from the collateral and may delay the realization process; Page 28 of 94 o our rights in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in the collateral; o how effectively the collateral would be liquidated and the value received could be impaired or impeded by the need to obtain regulatory and contractual consents; and o by its nature, some or all of the collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The liquidity and value of the collateral could be impaired as a result of changing economic conditions, competition, and other factors, including the availability of suitable buyers. Our success will depend upon the success of the portfolio companies and, in great part, upon the abilities of their management. Although our management expects to provide portfolio companies with assistance (particularly with regard to capital formation, major personnel decisions, and strategic planning), the day-to-day operations will be controlled by the management of the portfolio companies. As the portfolio companies have not all been identified, investors must rely upon our management to select portfolio companies that have, or can obtain, the necessary management resources. We will depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of each of the portfolio companies in which we invest and the professionals chosen by them, subject to the oversight of our senior management, and the information and interaction between management of the portfolio companies and our management. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of the senior management team of each portfolio company, the departure of any of whom, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. Problems may arise at portfolio companies that local management do not recognize or cannot resolve. In addition, the management of portfolio companies may conceal the existence of problems from us. Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments will consist of securities of privately held or thinly traded public companies. The fair value of these securities may not be readily determinable. We will value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on input from our audit committee with or without the benefit of an opinion from a third party independent valuation firm. We may also be required to value any publicly traded securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting the value of those securities. Our Board of Directors may, to the extent circumstances warrant it, utilize the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining the fair value of any securities. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and Page 29 of 94 particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, the determinations of fair value by our Board of Directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Limitations on availability of investment capital may adversely affect other investments. We may be reliant on the availability of capital to generate profits under our investment strategy and such availability will depend, in part, on our ability to timely liquidate existing positions in order to reinvest the proceeds thereof. To the extent that we own securities which are not subject to a valid registration statement or otherwise available for trading under applicable securities laws, our ability to liquidate our position in such securities may be limited. We intend to require some of our portfolio companies to use their best efforts to cause a registration statement covering the resale of the securities purchased by us to be filed and declared effective by the SEC or become otherwise freely tradeable. However, there can be no guarantee that the SEC or other regulating body will declare such a registration statement effective or permit such security to become free of restrictions within such period and, until such securities become freely tradable, we will likely be unable to freely liquidate such interests in restricted securities in the manner and at the prices desired. This resulting lack of liquidity could impair our ability to generate the cash flow from these positions to timely pay our liabilities or obtain funds for the purpose of reinvestment. Although we intend to maintain adequate liquidity to achieve our future investment objectives, there can be no assurance this can be accomplished in all circumstances. Portfolio companies are likely to need additional funding. We expect that many portfolio companies will require additional financing to satisfy their working capital requirements. The amount of additional financing needed will depend upon the maturity and objectives of the particular company. Each round of venture financing, whether from us or other investors is typically intended to provide a portfolio company with enough capital to reach the next major valuation milestone. If the funds provided are not sufficient, a portfolio company may have to raise additional capital at a price unfavorable to us and the other existing investors. The availability of capital is generally a function of capital market conditions that are beyond our control or the control of any portfolio company. We cannot assure you that our management or the managements of portfolio companies will be able to predict accurately the future capital requirements necessary for success or that additional funds will be available to portfolio companies from any source. If funding is not available, some portfolio companies may be forced to cease operations. BDC investments are generally illiquid. We anticipate that most of our holdings in portfolio companies will be securities that are subject to restrictions on resale. Generally, unless the securities are subsequently registered under the 1933 Act, we will not be able to sell these securities unless we meet all of the conditions of Rule 144 or another rule under the 1933 Act that permits limited sales under specified Page 30 of 94 conditions. When restricted securities are sold to the public, we may be deemed an underwriter, or possibly a controlling person, with respect thereto for the purpose of the Securities Act and may be subject to liability as such under the 1933 Act. These restrictions could require us to hold securities or refrain from sale and be unable to liquidate a position even at a loss. Even if we meet all of the conditions of the 1933 Act, there may be no market for the securities that we hold. These limitations on liquidity of a BDC's investments could prevent a successful sale thereof, result in delay of any sale, or substantially reduce the amount of proceeds that might otherwise be realized. It is possible that one or more of the portfolio companies may not qualify to rely on such exemptions or to use a registration statement. In such event, we would end up owning "restricted" securities subject to resale under Rule 144 There are risks which result from the inherent concentration of investments prior to diversification. While we intend to allocate our investments among different portfolio companies, it is possible that, prior to our achieving diversification, a significant amount of or all of our investments and, hence, our NAV could, at any one time, be invested in the securities of just a few portfolio companies. Thus, our success and its NAV would be dependent on the success of just a few portfolio companies and all of the risks associated with ownership of such portfolio companies including success dependent on management, success dependent on market conditions within the industry or field of such portfolio companies, success dependent on achieving the business objectives of such portfolio companies and success dependent on economic conditions and other conditions relative to the operation of such portfolio companies, would become risks borne by us. There are risks associated with investments in companies with small capitalization. The portfolio companies that we expect to invest in are thinly capitalized and generally will have a market capitalization below $100 million (and frequently substantially less). These companies generally do not have experience, market awareness, tracking by analysts, institutional investors and other benefits of larger companies that result in more marketability and more stability pricing of their securities. This impacts the liquidity of securities issued by those portfolio companies. It is expected that the securities of most, if not all, of the portfolio companies will be thinly traded. This could present a problem when we determine to liquidate our position. We may not be able to sell the securities in the time frame and at the price we would like. Furthermore, in certain situations, as a result of a security being thinly traded, we could experience a significant loss in value should we be forced to liquidate our investment as a result of rapidly changing market conditions or other factors. There are risks associated with investments in companies with securities that are not readily marketable. We may invest in securities that are initially, or that later become, not readily marketable. For example, we may acquire restricted securities of an issuer in a private placement pursuant to an arrangement whereby the issuer agrees to register the resale of those securities, or, in the case of an investment in convertible or exchangeable securities, the securities underlying such securities, within a certain period of time. Such registration requires compliance with United States Federal and state securities laws and the approval Page 31 of 94 of the SEC. Unless and until such registration or compliance with applicable regulation occurs, there is likely to be no market for the restricted securities. No assurance can be given that issuers will not breach their obligation to obtain or meet such registration or other compliance obligation. Similarly, securities that are at one time marketable may become unmarketable (or more difficult to market) for a number of reasons. For example, securities traded on a securities exchange or quotation system may become unmarketable if delisted from such exchange or quotation system for among other reasons, failing to satisfy the requirements for continued listing, which may include minimum price requirements. In addition, we may acquire restricted securities, for which no market exists, which are convertible or exchangeable into common stock of the issuer. No assurances can be given that a portfolio company which has sold a convertible security requiring exchange or conversion, will not breach its obligation to convert or exchange such securities upon demand, in which case our liquidity may be adversely affected. In general, the stability and liquidity of the securities in which we invest will depend in large part on the creditworthiness of the issuers. Issuers' creditworthiness will be monitored on an ongoing basis by us. If there is a default by the issuer, we may have contractual remedies under the applicable transaction documents. However, exercising such contractual rights may involve delays in liquidating our position and the incurrence of additional costs. Portfolio companies in which investments are made may have publicly-traded securities but those companies or their securities may become subject to restrictions due to non-compliance. Our ability to generate profits from our investment activities may be adversely affected by a failure of portfolio companies to comply with registration, conversion, exchange or other obligations under the agreements pursuant to which such securities have been sold to us. The failure of an issuer to register the resale of its securities sold to us may decrease the amount of available capital with which we may pursue other investment opportunities or meet current liabilities. We may invest in securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for common stock of the issuer, the resale of which by us is (or is to be) registered. If an issuer refuses, is unable to, or delays in timely honoring its obligation to issue conversion or exchange securities, our ability to liquidate our position will be adversely affected, and our profits may be adversely affected. We have not yet identified all of the potential investments for our portfolio. We have not yet identified all of the potential investments for our portfolio, and, thus, you will not be able to evaluate all of our potential investments prior to purchasing shares of our common stock. This factor will increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our shares. We may sustain losses from fraud within our portfolio companies. The risk of fraud losses on our assets varies with, among other things, the effectiveness of security procedures utilized. Management anticipates that fraud losses, if any, will be unlikely as controls and other security measures will have been adopted by each portfolio company as a condition to our investment to protect against fraudulent misappropriation of cash and other assets. However, although our management believes that any loss due to fraud will be unlikely, there can be no assurance that fraud loss experience will not become material in amount. Fraud at the BDC level is far less likely as BDC's are required to have and to have tested controls to limit this possibility. It must be noted that, in addition to basic controls as to financial data, BDC's are required to have in Page 32 of 94 place certain safeguards which may render risks to investment assets from fraud to be nominal but these risks do exist and even requirements such as holding physical certificates of shares in portfolio companies in a safe do not, in and of themselves, eliminate the possibility of fraud. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although we expect that most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements, currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Page 33 of 94 RISKS OF THE COMPANY AT ITS PRESENT STAGE Although we have been in existence for a number of years, we may still be considered to have a limited operating history as a BDC. We are a relatively new business development company with limited resources and sources of revenues. We were formed in March of 1996 and we have commenced investment operations but the extent of our investment activities may characterize us as a newer investment company. We made our election to become a BDC on March 7, 2006, and, as we have made an investment in only one portfolio company within our targeted industry, we have limited experience relating to the identification, evaluation and acquisition of target businesses and, accordingly, there is only a limited basis upon which to evaluate our prospects for achieving our intended business objectives. We have limited resources and have realized limited revenues to date. In addition, we will not achieve any revenues until, at the earliest, we are able to obtain funding, make investments and sell our position of securities in an underlying portfolio company for a profit. We will be wholly dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of all of our investments on the diligence and skill of our management, acting under the supervision of our Board of Directors. None of these individuals has substantial experience, within the BDC business format, in acquiring and investing in growth stage companies, the negotiation of the terms of such investments and the monitoring of such investments after they are made. We cannot assure you that we will attain our investment objective. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially or fall to zero. We will be confronted by competition from entities having substantially greater resources and experience. Other entities and individuals compete for investments similar to those proposed to be made by us, many of whom will have greater financial and management resources than we do. Furthermore, we must comply with provisions of the 1940 Act pertaining to BDCs and, if we qualify as a RIC, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code pertaining to RICs might restrict our flexibility as compared with our competitors. The need to compete for investment opportunities may make it necessary for us to offer portfolio companies more attractive transaction terms than otherwise might be the case. These factors may prevent us from ever becoming profitable. We have historically incurred losses and losses may continue in the future. We have historically lost money. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. Distributions to shareholders may never equal the amount invested by the shareholders. Page 34 of 94 We cannot assure you that any distributions to shareholders will be made by us or that aggregate distributions, if any, will equal or exceed the shareholders' investment in us. Sales of portfolio company securities will be a principal source of distributable cash to shareholders. The Board of Directors has absolute discretion in the timing of distributions to shareholders. Securities acquired by us through equity investments will be held by us and will be sold or distributed at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors. There are significant potential conflicts of interest, which could impact our investment returns Our executive officer(s) and Director(s) serve or may serve as officers and directors of entities who operate in the same or related line of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. It is possible that new investment opportunities that would otherwise meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one these entities, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, our executive officer(s) and Director(s) do have fiduciary obligations to act in our best interests and must, in such a circumstance or conflict, endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner over time so as not to discriminate one company against another, where equal fiduciary obligations are owed. In addition, they may not be available to us if there are time conflicts involving other entities. Our common stock is subject to the "Penny Stock" rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or option to acquire any equity security with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: o that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and o the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: o obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and o make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: Page 35 of 94 o sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and o that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We have limited operating history upon which to base your investment decision. While we started operations in March of 1996, we have a limited operating history available to evaluate the likelihood of the success of our business. We became a BDC on March 7, 2006. Our prospects should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and uncertainties that may be encountered by development stage companies. Among other things, we must build our customer base, respond to competitive developments, attract, retain and motivate qualified employees and establish and maintain our technologies, products, and services on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing such risks and implementing our business strategy. As a result of our lack of operating history, and the other risks described herein, we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues. Our future expense levels are based predominately on our operating plans and estimates of future revenues, and to a large extent are fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for revenues that do not materialize. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues or lack of revenue would likely have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to generate revenues will depend upon many factors. We will be required to build our business by implementing operational systems, hiring additional employees, developing and implementing a marketing and sales strategy and implementing our technology applications. Our expenses will initially exceed our revenues and no assurances can be made that we will become profitable or provide positive cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in selling the common shares or, if sold, at what price. We have limited assets without the sale of these common shares and we cannot assure you that we will attain our investment objective. Page 36 of 94 As of the date of filing of our Form 10K, we have minimal cash or other assets and net worth from which to invest in successful portfolio companies to insure our success. Our success will depend, in part, upon raising the necessary funds to fund investments. Restrictions imposed upon the resale of our capital stock may require you to hold your stock for an indefinite period of time. None of the securities to be issued based upon future sales will be registered under the Securities Act. The common stock to be sold is intended to be exempt from registration pursuant to Regulation E which permits, in conformity therewith, issuance of shares without restriction on further transfer. While we do not anticipate such an adverse decision or determination on the part of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC has the right, even after permitting the offering to become effective, to enjoin the sale of securities or determine that such sales are not exempt under Regulation E. While we will make every effort to insure our compliance with the requirements under Regulation E, there can be no assurance of such exemption; as the SEC does not, as a matter of policy, affirmatively indicate the effectiveness of the notification under Regulation E. CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS We operate in a highly regulated environment. The following discussion generally summarizes certain government regulations. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY. A business development company is defined and regulated by the 1940 Act. A business development company must be organized in the United States for the purpose of investing in or lending to primarily private companies and making managerial assistance available to them. A business development company may use capital provided by public shareholders and from other sources to invest in long-term, private investments in businesses. As a business development company, we may not acquire any asset other than "qualifying assets" unless, at the time we make the acquisition, the value of our qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the value of our total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our business are: (1) Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company, or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. An "eligible portfolio company" is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: (a) is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; (b) is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the business development company) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and Page 37 of 94 (c) satisfies any of the following: o does not have any class of securities with respect to which a broker or dealer may extend margin credit; o is controlled by a business development company or a group of companies including a business development company and the business development company has an affiliated person who is a director of the eligible portfolio company; or o is a small and solvent company having total assets of not more than $4 million and capital and surplus of not less than $2 million. (2) Securities of any eligible portfolio company which we control. (3) Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. (4) Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. (5) Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) through (4) above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. (6) Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities or high-quality debt maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. To include certain securities described above as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test, a business development company must make available to the issuer of those securities significant managerial assistance such as providing significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations, or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company, or making loans to a portfolio company. We offer to provide managerial assistance to each of our portfolio companies. As a business development company, we are entitled to issue senior securities in the form of stock or senior securities representing indebtedness, including debt securities and preferred stock, as long as each class of senior security has an asset coverage ratio of at least 200% immediately after each such issuance. See "Risk Factors." We may also be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our Independent Directors and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. As with other companies regulated by the 1940 Act, a business development company must adhere to certain other substantive ongoing regulatory requirements. A majority of our directors must be persons who are not "interested persons," as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. Additionally, we are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity Page 38 of 94 insurance company to protect the business development company. Furthermore, as a business development company, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to the company or our shareholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person's office. We maintain a code of ethics that establishes procedures for personal investment and restricts certain transactions by our personnel. Our code of ethics generally does not permit investment by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. Our code of ethics is attached as Exhibit 14. We may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company unless authorized by vote of a "majority of the outstanding voting securities," as defined in the 1940 Act, of our shares. A majority of the outstanding voting securities of a company is defined by the 1940 Act as the lesser of: (i) 67% or more of such company's shares present at a meeting if more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company are present and represented by proxy, or (ii) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company. We are periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with the 1940 Act. 