Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is subject to risks due to the nature of its business. The business of owning and investing in real estate is highly competitive. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value or our properties and the Company. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions affecting real estate values, rental rates, interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; 9 • Competitive overbuilding and competition from other warehouse and industrial properties; • Inability to keep high levels of occupancy; • Inability to control variable operating costs; • Tenant defaults; • Unfavorable changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies (including rent control legislation); • Ability to renew leases or relet space; • Uninsured losses or liabilities, including acts of terrorism, acts of war and earthquakes; • Ability to sell properties on terms as advantageous as past dispositions; • Ability to acquire properties that return yields consistent with past acquisitions; • Disruptions to our business and strain of management resources due to changes in our portfolio, operations in markets outside of our core market, or changes in management; • Geographic concentration in the greater Chicago industrial market and concentration on warehouse or other industrial properties; • Constraints on our business compelled by federal tax laws, which may, for example, cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, liquidate otherwise attractive investments, or require us to make distributions that require borrowing; • Penalties if we are unable to comply with federal tax laws; • Ability to meet required payments of principal and interest, to refinance existing indebtness or to finance necessary capital expenditures for renovations and other improvements; • Restrictive covenants in our credit facility; • Risks specific to industrial property investments and development, including construction delays, cost overruns and receipt of governmental approvals; • Costs associated with projects that are not pursued to completion; • Changes or limitations in our ability to raise capital, which is dependent upon, among other things, our own financial structure and performance; • The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws; and • Dependence on key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow and could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. The most significant of these risks are described in greater detail below. Real Estate Investment Risks CenterPoint is subject to the general risks of investing in real estate. The business of owning and investing in real estate is highly competitive. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our properties. These include: • adverse changes in general or local economic conditions affecting real estate values, rental rates, interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • competitive overbuilding; • our inability to keep high levels of occupancy in our properties; • our inability to control variable operating costs, including costs relating to maintenance and insurance with respect to our properties; • tenant defaults; and • potential liability under and unfavorable changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies (including rent control legislation, zoning, usage and tax laws and enforcement policies governing 1031 exchanges). In addition, these same factors may affect our ability to sell our properties. Acquiring, redeveloping and improving properties may involve unexpected costs. We acquire properties from time to time. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated, that the actual costs for rehabilitation, renovation and improvements identified in the 10 pre-acquisition due diligence process exceed estimates, that the properties may operate at a cash deficit during the redevelopment and/or lease-up period and that a contractor will be unable to control costs or conform to the original plans and timetables. The contractor’s ability to control costs or conform to plans and timetables may be affected by strikes, weather, government regulations and other conditions beyond the contractor’s control. As a result, we may not realize the projected benefits from the acquisition, redevelopment and improvement of properties. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space. When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if our tenants do renew or we are able to relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting (including the cost of renovations, if necessary) may be less favorable than expiring lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew our leases or relet space, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than current rates, then our profitability will be adversely affected. Tenant defaults may adversely affect our distributable cash flow. Our results of operations and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if tenants are unable to meet their obligations to us. In the event of default by tenants, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. Upon a default, we may not be able to relet the space or to relet the space on terms that are as favorable to us as the defaulted lease, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are not diversified geographically or by property type. Substantially all of our properties are located in the greater Chicago area, and substantially all of our properties are warehouse or other industrial properties. While we believe that our focus on this geographical area and property type is an advantage, adverse economic developments in the greater Chicago area may adversely affect our properties and, therefore, our profitability. We face competition in our markets. Our properties are located in areas that have other warehouse and industrial properties which may be more attractive to potential tenants. Competition from other warehouse or industrial properties may adversely affect our ability to lease our properties and to increase the rentals charged on our leases. We also expect competition in the acquisition of existing properties and the development of new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type that we would like to pursue. As a result, we may not be able, or have the opportunity, to make suitable investments on favorable terms in the future. This could adversely affect our profitability. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of assets. The illiquid nature of real estate investments may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Thus, the illiquid nature of our real estate investments could adversely affect our profitability under certain economic conditions. We may incur uninsured losses or liabilities. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood (where appropriate), extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that are generally not insured, such as losses relating to earthquakes, riots, acts of war, acts of terrorism, losses caused by the presence of mold or losses relating to contract or lease claims. If an uninsured loss occurred or if a loss was incurred in excess of our insurance coverage limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Financing and Capital Risks We are subject to debt financing risks. We regularly borrow money to finance our business. As a result, our business is subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risks that: • we will be unable to meet required payments of principal and interest; • we will not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness or, if we are able to refinance our existing indebtedness, the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the original terms of such indebtedness; and 11 • we will not be able to finance necessary capital expenditures for renovations and other improvements or, if financed, we will not be able to finance such capital expenditures on favorable terms. If we have mortgaged a property to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the lender may foreclose on the property and we will lose the income and asset value of such property. We would be adversely affected by rising interest rates. Advances under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR or prime. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense which could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to service our debt. In addition, increases in costs of financing may lessen the appeal of some development or acquisition opportunities to us. The financial covenants in our credit facility may limit our flexibility and dividend growth. The terms of our credit facility entered into on June 30, 2003 require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the credit facility even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. We may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital. In order to have qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we were required to distribute 90% of our taxable income to shareholders each year. As a result, we have relied on, and will continue to rely on, third party capital sources for many of our capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and development. The public debt and equity markets are among the sources on which we have relied and will continue to rely. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to access these markets, or any other source of capital. Our ability to access the public debt and equity markets depends on a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions affecting these markets; • our own financial structure and performance; and • the view of real estate companies in the market generally. Environmental Risks Ownership of properties involves environmental risks. Federal, state and local laws and regulations to protect the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination arising from that site. Recently, indoor air quality issues, including mold, have been highlighted in the media and the industry is seeing mold claims from lessees rising. To date, we have not incurred any material costs or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or abating mold conditions. However, due to the recent increase in mold claims and given that the law relating to mold is unsettled and subject to change, we could incur losses from claims relating to the presence of, or exposure to, mold or other microbial organisms, particularly if we are unable to maintain adequate insurance to cover such losses. We may also incur unexpected expenses relating to the abatement of mold on our properties. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos (1) properly manage and maintain the asbestos, (2) notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and (3) undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. These laws may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. 12 Other Risks We are dependent on key personnel. Our executive and other senior officers have a significant role in our success. Our ability to retain our management group or to attract suitable replacements should any members of the management group leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key members of the management group or a limitation in their availability could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved staff comments. 