ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and expect to continue to incur additional losses in the future, which may reduce our ability to raise capital. For the years ended March 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we incurred net losses of $31.7 million, $10.6 million, and $42.2 million, respectively. The net loss for the year ended March 31, 2010 included a $1.5 million non-cash loss on change in fair value of derivatives and a $10.3 million non-cash loss on the early extinguishment of debt. The net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 included a $3.9 million non-cash loss on change in fair value of derivatives. The net loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 included a $27.0 million non-cash loss on the early extinguishment of debt and a $1.1 million non-cash loss on change in fair value of derivatives. We are currently investing heavily in our expansion in Culpeper, Virginia, upgrades to support our infrastructure in Miami, Florida and expansion in Santa Clara, California. As a result, we will incur higher depreciation and other operating expenses that will negatively impact our ability to achieve and sustain profitability unless and until these new facilities generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and cover additional overhead needed to scale our business to this anticipated growth. Although our goal is to achieve profitability, there can be no guarantee that we will become profitable, and we may continue to incur additional losses. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competitive nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our continuing losses may limit our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as those losses are taken into account by the organizations that issue investment ratings on our indebtedness. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our products and services must be able to differentiate themselves from existing providers of space and services for telecommunications companies, web hosting companies, virtualized IT solutions and other colocation providers. In addition to competing with carrier neutral colocation providers, we must compete with traditional colocation providers, including local phone companies, long distance phone companies, Internet service providers and web hosting facilities. Likewise, with respect to our other products and services, including managed services, bandwidth services and security services, we must compete with more established providers of similar services. Most of these companies have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. As a result, in the future, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, these competitors could offer colocation on neutral terms, and may start doing so in the same metropolitan areas where we have NAP centers. Some of these competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communication services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than obtaining space in our data centers. If our competitors were able to adopt aggressive pricing policies together with offering colocation space, our ability to generate revenues would be materially adversely affected. We may also face competition from persons seeking to replicate our Internet Exchanges concept by building new centers or converting existing centers that some of our competitors are in the process of divesting. We may experience competition from our landlords in this regard. Rather than licensing our available space to large single tenants, they may decide to convert the space instead to smaller square foot units designed for multi-tenant colocation use. Landlords may enjoy a cost effective advantage in providing similar services as our data centers, and this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. Competitors may operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Furthermore, enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in outsourcing arrangements may be reluctant or slow to adopt our approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. In addition, 17 Table of Contents other companies may be able to attract the same potential customers that we are targeting. Once customers are located in competitors’ facilities, it may be extremely difficult to convince them to relocate to our data centers. A significant portion of our revenues is from contracts with agencies of the United States government and uncertainties and costs inherent in the government contracting arena could adversely affect our business. For the year ended March 31, 2010, revenues from contracts with the federal sector constituted approximately 24% of our revenues. Generally, U.S. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by government representatives, to profit and cost controls and limitations and to provisions permitting modification or termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience. Government contracts typically have an initial term of one year and renewals are at the discretion of the U.S. government. In some cases, government contracts are subject to the uncertainties surrounding congressional appropriations or agency funding. Our failure to renew or replace U.S. government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government contracts are also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements which, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. The government may also change its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to contract modification or termination, the assessment of penalties and fines and/or suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently, which would limit our growth prospects, have an adverse effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our participation in government contracts subjects us from time to time to inquiries, investigations and subpoenas and other requests or demands for information regarding our business with the federal government. If improper or illegal activities are uncovered, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, mere allegations of impropriety could adversely impact our reputation. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired or if the government otherwise were to cease doing business with us or were to significantly decrease the amount of business it does with us, our revenue, cash flows and operating results would be materially adversely affected. We have been awarded, and may in the future submit bids for, U.S. government contracts that require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and require us or our subsidiaries to maintain certain facility security clearances in compliance with Department of Defense and other government requirements. The classified work that we currently perform at our facilities subjects us to the industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against unauthorized access by foreigners and others to classified and other sensitive information. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it can be difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances, or if our employees who hold security clearances stop working for us, we may face delays in fulfilling contracts or be unable to fulfill or secure new contracts with any customer involved in classified work. Any breach of security for which we are responsible could seriously harm our business, damage our reputation and make us ineligible to work on any classified programs. We may be subject to penalties for violations of these regulations. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control, or influence, the U.S. government could terminate our contracts with it or decide not to renew them and such a situation could also impair our ability to obtain new contracts and subcontracts. 18 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few clients; accordingly, a reduction in our clients’ demand for our services or the loss of clients could impair our financial performance. For each of the years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from the federal sector. Because we derive a large percentage of our revenues from a few major customers, our revenues could significantly decline if we lose one or more of these customers or if the amount of business we obtain from them is reduced. A failure to meet customer specifications or expectations could result in lost revenues, increased expenses, negative publicity, claims for damages and harm to our reputation and cause demand for our services to decline. Our agreements with customers require us to meet specified service levels for the services we provide. In addition, our customers may have additional expectations about our services. Any failure to meet customers’ specifications or expectations could result in: • delayed or lost revenue; • requirements to provide additional services to a customer at reduced charges or no charge; • negative publicity about us, which could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • claims by customers for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, which may not be covered by insurance policies and which may not be limited by contractual terms of our engagement. Our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially impaired if we are unable to deploy new infrastructure systems and applications or if new infrastructure systems and applications deployed by us prove to be unreliable, defective or incompatible. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of hosting and application management services in the future. If any newly introduced infrastructure systems and applications suffer from reliability, quality or compatibility problems, market acceptance of our services could be greatly hindered and our ability to attract new customers could be significantly reduced. We cannot assure you that new applications deployed by us will be free from any reliability, quality or compatibility problems. If we incur increased costs or are unable, for technical or other reasons, to host and manage new infrastructure systems and applications or enhancements of existing applications, our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially limited. Any interruptions in, or degradation of, our private transit Internet connections could result in the loss of customers or hinder our ability to attract new customers. Our customers rely on our ability to move their digital content as efficiently as possible to the people accessing their websites and infrastructure systems and applications. We utilize our direct private transit Internet connections to major network providers, such as AT&T and Global Crossing as a means of avoiding congestion and resulting performance degradation at public Internet exchange points. We rely on these telecommunications network suppliers to maintain the operational integrity of their networks so that our private transit Internet connections operate effectively. If our private transit Internet connections are interrupted or degraded, we may face claims by, or lose, customers, and our reputation in the industry may be harmed, which may cause demand for our services to decline. Our network infrastructure could fail, which would impair our ability to provide guaranteed levels of service and could result in significant operating losses. To provide our customers with guaranteed levels of service, we must operate our network infrastructure 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. We must, therefore, protect our network infrastructure, equipment and customer files against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, 19 Table of Contents power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster, equipment failure or other unanticipated problem at one or more of our data centers could result in interruptions in the services we provide to our customers. We cannot assure you that our disaster recovery plan will address all, or even most, of the problems we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problem. We have experienced service interruptions in the past, and any future service interruptions could: • require us to spend substantial amounts of money to replace equipment or facilities; • entitle customers to claim service credits or seek damages for losses under our service level guarantees; • cause customers to seek alternate providers; or • impede our ability to attract new customers, retain current customers or enter into additional strategic relationships. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business conditions could harm our business in international markets. For the years ended March 31, 2010, and 2009, 15% and 13% of our total revenue, respectively, was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. We may encounter difficulties implementing our expansion plan. We expect that we may encounter challenges and difficulties in implementing our expansion plan to establish new facilities in those domestic and international locations where we believe there is significant demand for our services and to expand our facilities in those locations we currently own such as Culpeper, Virginia, where we are currently constructing one pod and have the capacity to construct 2 additional pods, each yielding 50,000 square feet of net colocation space. These challenges and difficulties relate to our ability to: • identify and obtain the use of locations in which we believe there is sufficient demand for our services; • generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through additional debt or equity financings to support these expansion plans; • hire, train and retain sufficient additional financial reporting management, operational and technical employees; and • install and implement new financial and other systems, procedures and controls to support this expansion plan with minimal delays. If we encounter greater than anticipated difficulties in implementing our expansion plan, it may be necessary to take additional actions, which could divert management’s attention and strain our operational and financial resources. We may not successfully address any or all of these challenges, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business plan and results of operations, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to achieve enhanced profitability. 20 Table of Contents Our dependence on third parties increases the risk that we will not be able to meet our customers’ needs for software, systems and services on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could result in the loss of customers. Our services and infrastructure rely on products and services of third-party providers. We purchase key components of our infrastructure, including networking equipment, from a limited number of suppliers, such as IBM, Cisco Systems, Inc., Microsoft and Oracle. We may experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of third-party software, systems and services. We may not have the necessary hardware or parts on hand or that our suppliers will be able to provide them in a timely manner in the event of equipment failure. Our inability to timely obtain and continue to maintain the necessary hardware or parts could result in sustained equipment failure and a loss of revenue due to customer loss or claims for service credits under our service level guarantees. We could be subject to increased operating costs, as well as claims, litigation or other potential liability, in connection with risks associated with Internet security and the security of our systems. A significant barrier to the growth of e-commerce and communications over the Internet has been the need for secure transmission of confidential information. Several of our infrastructure systems and application services use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the protections necessary to ensure secure transmission of confidential information. We also rely on security systems designed by third parties and the personnel in our network operations centers to secure those data centers. Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions and other disruptions could result in increased operating costs or worsen our reputation with our customers. For example, we may incur additional significant costs to protect against these interruptions and the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these interruptions or breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate a consumer’s personal or proprietary information, including credit card information, during the use of an application solution provided by us, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liability as well as loss of reputation. We may be subject to legal claims in connection with the information disseminated through our network, which could divert management’s attention and require us to expend significant financial resources. We may face liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature of the materials disseminated through our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by some of our customers may be regulated or banned. In these and other instances, we may be required to engage in protracted and expensive litigation that could have the effect of diverting management’s attention from our business and require us to expend significant financial resources. Our general liability insurance may not cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial e-mails from servers hosted at our facilities to a number of people, typically to advertise products or services. This practice, known as “spamming,” can lead to statutory liability as well as complaints against service providers that enable these activities, particularly where recipients view the materials received as offensive. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, letters from recipients of information transmitted by our customers objecting to the transmission. Although we prohibit our customers by contract from spamming, we cannot assure you that our customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and prevent others from duplicating our products and services. However, these means may afford only 21 Table of Contents limited protection and may not: (1) prevent our competitors from duplicating our products or services; (2) prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or (3) permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We cannot assure you that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products or services could be impaired, which could significantly impede our ability to market our products or services, negatively affect our competitive position and harm our business and operating results. We cannot assure you that any pending or future patent applications held by us will result in an issued patent or that, if patents are issued to us, that such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability. The United States federal courts or equivalent national courts or patent offices elsewhere may invalidate our patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our sales. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share that would harm our business and operating results. Our products or services could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties and/or prevent us from using technology that is essential to our products or services. We cannot assure you that our products, services or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of our products or services that incorporate or makes use of the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products or services to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology, our sales could be harmed and/or our costs increase, which would harm our financial condition and our stock price may likely decline. 22 Table of Contents We license intellectual property rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the intellectual property underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our licensor may also seek to terminate our license. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the applications for intellectual property to which we have licenses. Even if patents or other intellectual property registrations issue in respect of these applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents or intellectual property registrations, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents or intellectual property registrations, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products or services for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. One or more of our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products or services, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. We rely on trade secrets and other forms of non-patent intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our commercial partners, collaborators, employees and consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other technologies not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Some of our employees may have been previously employed by other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. As such, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain products or services, which would adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to liability under non-solicitation agreements to which one or more of our employees may be a party with certain of our competitors. From time to time, we may hire employees who may be parties to non-solicitation or non-competition agreements with one or more of our competitors. Although we expect that all such employees will comply with the terms of their non-solicitation agreements, it is possible that if customers of our competitors chose to move their business to us, or employees of a competitor seek employment with us, even without any action on the part of any employee bound by any such agreement, one or more of our competitors may chose to bring a claim against us and our employee. 23 Table of Contents We may become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties that could substantially harm our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. It is likely that laws and regulations directly applicable to the Internet or to hosting and managed application service providers may be adopted. These laws may cover a variety of issues, including user privacy and the pricing, characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to commerce over the Internet could substantially impair the growth of our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet and hosting and managed application service providers is uncertain. These existing laws could expose us to substantial liability if they are found to be applicable to our business. For example, we provide services over the Internet in many states in the United States and elsewhere and facilitate the activities of our customers in these jurisdictions. As a result, we may be required to qualify to do business, be subject to taxation or be subject to other laws and regulations in these jurisdictions, even if we do not have a physical presence, employees or property in those states. Our substantial leverage may impair our cash flow and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2010, we have debt totaling approximately $456.6 million, of which $4.9 million is current and payable during the twelve months ending March 31, 2011. Additionally, on April 28, 2010, we completed our offering of an additional $50 million aggregate principal amount of our 12% Senior Secured Notes. For a description of our outstanding debt, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations and comply with other restrictions under our notes and our other indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional or favorable financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • requiring that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that have less indebtedness. Should we need additional capital or financing, our ability to arrange financing and the cost of this financing will depend upon many factors, including: • general economic and capital markets conditions, and in particular the non-investment grade debt market; • conditions in the Internet infrastructure market; • credit availability from banks or other lenders; • investor confidence in the telecommunications industry generally and our company specifically; and • the success of our facilities. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our senior secured notes permits us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. In addition, any future credit facility or other agreement governing our 24 Table of Contents indebtedness may allow us to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness, the risks described above could intensify. We will require a significant amount of cash to fund our debt service, working capital needs and our expansion plans, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the senior secured notes, fund working capital needs and fulfill our expansion plans depends on our ability to generate adequate cash flow. To some extent, our ability to generate adequate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations at sufficient levels or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and meet our other needs, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness, or obtain additional financing. Alternatively, we may have to reduce expenditures that we deem necessary to our business or sell assets, which may further reduce our ability to generate cash and may reduce the amount of collateral securing the notes. We cannot assure you that any or all of these actions will be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or that any additional financing could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. The indenture that governs our senior secured notes contains, and future financing agreements may contain, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The indenture governing our senior secured notes restricts, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • make restricted payments; • incur additional debt and issue preferred or disqualified stock; • create liens; • create or permit to exist restrictions on our ability or the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make • certain payments or distributions; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • engage in mergers or consolidations or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • make certain dispositions and transfers of assets; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by many events beyond our control, and we may not be able to comply with these covenants, or in the event of default, to remedy that default. Our failure to comply with the covenants under the notes could result in a default, which could cause our senior secured notes (and by reason of cross-acceleration provisions, our other indebtedness) to become immediately due and payable. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may be delisted by the NASDAQ, and our stockholders could find it difficult to sell our common stock. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ requires companies to fulfill specific requirements in order for their shares to continue to be listed. Our securities may be considered for delisting if: • our financial condition and operating results appear to be unsatisfactory; 25 Table of Contents • we have sustained losses that are so substantial in relation to our overall operations or our existing financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. If our shares are delisted from the NASDAQ, our stockholders could find it difficult to sell our stock. To date, we have had no communication from the NASDAQ regarding delisting. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ, we may apply to have our shares quoted on NASDAQ’s Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. The Bulletin Board and the “pink sheets” are generally considered to be less efficient markets than the NASDAQ. In addition, if our shares are no longer listed on the NASDAQ or another national securities exchange in the United States, our shares may be subject to the “penny stock” regulations. If our common stock were to become subject to the penny stock regulations it is likely that the price of our common stock would decline and that our stockholders would find it more difficult to sell their shares on a liquid and efficient market. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, or increased costs of energy. A significant amount of our business is dependent upon the continued operation of the NAP of the Americas building. The NAP of the Americas building and our other NAP facilities are susceptible to regional costs of power, electrical power shortages and planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages. A power shortage at an internet exchange facility may result in an increase of the cost of energy, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. Power outages that last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements could harm our customers and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our success. We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to these key individuals. Our recent and potential growth and expansion are expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. Our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could impair our ability to manage and operate our business effectively. If the world-wide financial crisis and the ongoing economic recession continues or intensifies, our ability to meet long-term commitments and our ability to grow our business would be adversely affected; this could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The global economy is currently experiencing a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. We rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered or privately-placed debt, as well as the credit markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets, similar to those that are currently being experienced, could result from uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions and could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. Besides our cash on hand and any financing activities we may purse, customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the 26 Table of Contents past, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate we may experience increased churn in our customer base, including reductions in their commitments to us, which could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operation and financial position. If the ongoing economic recession continues or worsens or if markets continue to be disrupted, there may be lower demand for our services and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile (ranging from $2.51 per share to $8.98 per share during the 52-week trading period ended March 31, 2010). Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The factors that could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly include, but are not limited to, the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • future issuances of common stock or other securities; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. We expect that the price of our common stock will be significantly affected by the availability of shares for sale in the market. The sale or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. On March 31, 2010, there were approximately 65.1 million shares of our common stock outstanding and approximately 12.4 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to our 6.625% Senior Convertible Notes, Series I convertible preferred stock, options, nonvested stock and warrants to purchase our common stock, which consist of: • 4,575,200 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 6.625% Senior Convertible Notes; • 1,041,333 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our Series I convertible preferred stock; • 2,340,037 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options; • 2,429,994 shares of our nonvested stock; and • 2,018,128 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants. Accordingly, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock are likely to become available for sale in the foreseeable future, which may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Our common shares are thinly traded and, therefore, relatively illiquid. As of March 31, 2010, we had 65,058,331 common shares outstanding. While our common shares trade on the NASDAQ, our stock is thinly traded (approximately 0.5%, or 297,669 shares, of our stock traded on an average daily basis during the year ended March 31, 2010), and you may have difficulty in selling your shares quickly. The low trading volume of our common stock is outside of our control and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained. Existing stockholders’ interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund the acquisition of additional businesses, capital expenditures and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of the shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares. We have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, and the indenture governing our 12% Senior Secured Notes restricts our ability to pay dividends. Further, the terms of our Series I convertible preferred stock provide that, in the event we pay any dividends on our common stock, an additional dividend must be paid with respect to all of our outstanding Series I convertible preferred stock in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of dividends that would be owed for all shares of commons stock into which the shares of Series I convertible preferred stock could be converted at such time. Therefore, an investor in our common stock may obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 