Item 1A. Risk Factors A number of factors affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of the most significant factors that might cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. We are subject to risks inherent in owning real estate investments. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Our ability to make dividend distributions, as well as the amount or timing of any distribution, may be adversely affected by the economic climate, business conditions, and certain local conditions including: · oversupply of space or reduced demand for rental space and newly developed properties; · the attractiveness of our properties compared to other retail space; · our ability to provide adequate maintenance to our properties; and · fluctuations in real estate taxes, insurance, and other operating costs. 6 Table of Contents Applicable laws, including tax laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing, may adversely affect our income and real estate values. In addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell our properties quickly may be limited. We cannot be sure that we will be able to lease space as tenants move out or as to the rents we may be able to charge new tenants entering such space. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We maintain broad property, business interruption, and third-party liability insurance on our consolidated real estate assets as well as those held in joint ventures in which we have an investment interest. Regardless of our insurance coverage, insured losses could cause a serious disruption to our business and reduce or delay our operations and receipt of revenue. In addition, certain catastrophic perils are subject to very large deductibles that may cause an adverse impact on our operating results. Lastly, some types of losses, including lease and other contractual claims, are not currently covered by our insurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital that we have invested in a property. If this h appens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property or group of impacted properties. Our insurance policies include coverage for acts of terrorism by foreign or domestic agents. The United States government provides reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (the “Act”) which extended the effectiveness of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005. The Act is designed to reinsure the insurance industry from declared terrorism events that cause or create in excess of $100 million in damages or losses. The United States government could terminate its reinsurance of terrorism, thus increasing the risk of uninsured exposure to the Company for such acts. We rely on major tenants. At December 31, 2009, our four largest tenants were Gap, Inc., Limited Brands, Inc., AMC Theater, and Signet Jewelers, Ltd, representing 2.6%, 2.5%, 2.1% and 2.1% of our annualized minimum rents, respectively. No other tenant represented more than 2.0% of the aggregate annualized minimum rents of our properties as of such date. Our financial position and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in the business of any such tenant as well as requests from such tenants for significant rent relief or other lease concessions, or if any such tenant does not renew a number of its leases as they expire. Bankruptcy of our tenants or downturns in our tenants’ businesses may reduce our cash flow. Since we derive almost all of our income from rental payments and other tenant charges, our cash available for distribution would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us, or if we were unable to lease vacant space in our properties on economically favorable terms. A tenant may seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws which could result in the termination of its lease causing a reduction in our cash available for distribution. Furthermore, certain of our tenants, including anchor tenants, hold the right under their lease(s) to terminate their lease(s) or reduce their rental rate if certain occupancy conditions are not met, if certain anchor tenants close, if certain sales levels or profit margins are not achieved, or if an exclus ive use provision is violated, which all could be triggered in the event of one or more tenant bankruptcies. A significant increase in the number of tenant bankruptcies, particularly amongst anchor tenants, may make it more difficult for us to lease the remainder of the property or properties in which the bankrupt tenant operates and adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. Prolonged instability or volatility in the U.S. economy, on a regional or national level, may adversely impact consumer spending and therefore our operating results. A sustained downturn in the U.S. economy, on a regional or national level, and reduced consumer spending could impact our tenants’ ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity or other reasons and therefore decrease the revenue generated by our properties or the value of our properties. Our ability to lease space and negotiate and maintain favorable rents could also be negatively impacted by a prolonged recession in the U.S. economy. Moreover, the demand for leasing space in our existing shopping centers as well as our development properties could also significantly decline during a significant downturn in the U.S. economy which could result in a decline in our occupancy percentage and reduction in rental revenues. 7 Table of Contents We face significant competition that may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with many commercial developers, real estate companies and major retailers. Some of these entities develop or own malls, open-air lifestyle centers, value-oriented retail properties, and community shopping centers with whom we compete for tenants. We face competition for prime locations and for tenants. New regional malls, open-air lifestyle centers, or other retail shopping centers with more convenient locations or better rents may attract tenants or cause them to seek more favorable lease terms at or prior to renewal. Retailers at our properties may face increasing competition from other retailers, e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, direct mail, telemarketing and home shopping networks, all of which could affect their ability to pay rent or desire to occupy one or more of our properties. The failure to fully recover cost reimbursements for CAM, taxes and insurance from tenants could adversely affect our operating results. The computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for CAM, insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments including interpretation of terms and other tenant lease provisions. Most tenants make monthly fixed payments of CAM, real estate taxes and other cost reimbursement items. After the end of the calendar year, we compute each tenant’s final cost reimbursements and issue a bill or credit for the full amount, after considering amounts paid by the tenants during the year. The billed amounts could be disputed by the tenant(s) or become the subject of a tenant audit. Final adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2009 have not yet been determined. At December 31, 2009, our recorded accounts receivables reflected $1.7 mil lion of 2009 costs that we expect to recover from tenants during the first six months of 2010. There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially all of this amount. The results of operations for our properties depend on the economic conditions of the regions of the United States in which they are located. Our results of operations and distributions to you will generally be subject to economic conditions in the regions in which our properties are located. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 34% of annualized minimum rents came from our properties located in Ohio. We may be unable to successfully redevelop, develop or operate our properties. As a result of economic and other conditions and required approvals from governmental entities, lenders, or our joint venture partners, development projects may not be pursued or may be completed later or with higher costs than anticipated. In the event of an unsuccessful development project, our loss could exceed our investment in the project. Development activities involve significant risks, including: · the expenditure of funds on and devotion of time to projects which may not come to fruition; · increased construction costs that may make the project economically unattractive; · an inability to obtain construction financing and permanent financing on favorable terms; · occupancy rates and rents not sufficient to make a project profitable; and · provisions within our corporate financing or other agreements that may prohibit the use of capital proceeds for development projects. We could incur significant costs related to environmental issues. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of on real property, may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating these substances on or under the property. In connection with the ownership or operation of our properties, we could be liable for such costs, which could be substantial and even exceed the value of such property or the value of our aggregate assets. We could incur such costs or be liable for such costs during a period after we dispose of or transfer a property. The failure to remediate toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent any of our properties or to borrow funds. In addition, environmental laws may require us to expend substantial sums in order to use our properties or operate our business. 8 Table of Contents We have established a contingency reserve for one environmental matter as noted in Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges that may materially affect our financial results. We evaluate our real estate assets and other assets for impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of our investment in the asset is not reasonably assured. This evaluation is conducted periodically, but no less frequently than quarterly. Our determination of whether a particular held-for-use asset is impaired is based upon the undiscounted projected cash flows used for the impairment analysis and our determination of the asset’s estimated fair value, that in turn are based upon our plans for the respective asset and our views of market and economic conditions. With respect to assets held-for-sale, our determination of whether such an asset is impaired is based upon market and economic conditions. If we determine th at a significant impairment has occurred, then we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made. Furthermore, changes in estimated future cash flows due to a change in our plans or views of market and economic conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment losses for already impaired assets, which, under the applicable accounting guidance, could be substantial. We may incur significant costs of complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. We may be required to expend significant sums of money to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“ADA”), and other federal and local laws in order for our properties to meet requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. GRT believes that it has qualified as a REIT under the Code since 1994, but cannot be sure that it will remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within GRT’s control that may impact GRT’s ability to qualify as a REIT under the Code. In addition, GRT cannot be sure that new laws, regulations and judicial decisions will not significantly change the tax laws relating to REITs, or the federal income tax consequences of REIT qualification. If GRT fails to qualify as a REIT, it would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates. Additionally, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, GRT would also be disqualified from electing to be treated as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification is lost, thereby reducing net earnings available for investment or distribution to you because of the additional tax liability imposed for the year or years involved. Lastly, GRT would no longer be required by the Code to make any dividend distributions as a condition to REIT qualification. To the extent that dividend distributions to you may have been made in anticipation of qualifyi ng as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of our investments to pay the applicable tax. Our ownership interests in certain partnerships and other ventures are subject to certain tax risks. Some of our property interests and other investments are made or held through entities in which we have an interest (the “Subsidiary Partnerships”). The tax risks of this type of ownership include possible challenge by the Internal Revenue Service of allocations of income and expense items which could affect the computation of our taxable income, a challenge to the status of any such entities as partnerships (as opposed to associations taxable as corporations) for federal income tax purposes, and the possibility of action being taken by tax regulators or the entities themselves could adversely affect GRT’s qualification as a REIT, for example, by requiring the sale of a property. We believe that the entities in which we have an interest have been and will be treated for tax pu rposes as partnerships (and not treated as associations taxable as corporations). If our ownership interest in any entity taxable as a corporation exceeded 10% (in terms of vote or value) of such entity’s outstanding securities (unless such entity were a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or a “qualified REIT subsidiary,” as those terms are defined in the Code) or the value of interest in any such entity exceeded 5% of the value of our assets, then GRT would cease to qualify as a REIT; distributions from any of these entities would be treated as dividends, to the extent of earnings and profits, and we would not be able to deduct our share of losses, if any, generated by such entity in computing our taxable income. 9 Table of Contents We may not have access to other sources of funds necessary to meet our REIT distribution requirements. In order to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income (determined by excluding any net capital gain). The amount available for distribution will be affected by a number of factors, including the operation of our properties. We have sold a number of non-core assets and intend in the future to sell additional selected non-core assets. The loss of rental income associated with our properties sold will in turn affect net income and FFO. In order to maintain REIT status, we may be required to make distributions in excess of net income and FFO. In such a case, it may be necessary to arrange for short or long term borrowings, or to issue common or preferred stock or other securities, to ra ise funds, which may not be possible. Debt financing could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.6 billion of total indebtedness outstanding. As of December 31, 2009, we have borrowed $346.9 million from our $470.0 million unsecured credit facility. A number of our outstanding loans will require lump sum or “balloon” payments for the outstanding principal balance at maturity, and we may finance future investments that may be structured in the same manner. Our ability to repay indebtedness at maturity, or otherwise, may depend on our ability to either refinance such indebtedness or to sell certain properties. Additionally, our ability to repay any indebtedness secured by properties the maturity of which is accelerated upon any default may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing for such properties or to own s uch properties. If we are unable to repay any of our debt at or before maturity, then we may have to borrow from our credit facility, to the extent it has availability thereunder, to make such repayments. In addition, a lender could foreclose on one or more of our properties to collect its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which could reduce the value of the Common Shares or preferred shares and the distributions payable to you. Volatility and instability in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to fund our development projects and cause us to seek financing from alternative sources. Global and domestic credit markets have recently experienced significant volatility and instability. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access capital or to finance our future expansions of existing properties as well as future acquisitions, development activities, and redevelopment projects. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing from smaller lending institutions or non-traditional lending entities that may be subject to greater market risk and may require us to adjust our business plan(s) or financing funding objectives accordingly. Weakness in the credit markets may also negatively affect the credit ratings of our securities and promote a perceived decline in the value of our properties based on deteriorating general and retail economic conditions which could adversely affect the amount and type of financing available for our properties and operations as well as the terms of such financing. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the bank participants to meet their funding commitments. Banks that are a party to our credit facility may have incurred substantial losses or be in danger of incurring substantial losses as a result of previous loans to other borrowers, a decline in the value of certain securities they hold, or their other business dealings and investments. As a result, these banks may become capital constrained, more restrictive in their lending or funding standards, or become insolvent, in which case these banks might not be able to meet their funding commitments under our credit facility. If one or more banks do not meet their funding commitments under our credit facility, then we may be unable to draw sufficient funds under our credit facility for capital to operate our business or other needs and will not be able to utilize the full capacity under the credit facility until replacement lenders are located or one or more of the remaining lenders under the credit facility agrees to fund any shortfall, both of which will be difficult to accomplish in this economic environment. Accordingly, for all practical purposes under such a scenario, the borrowing capacity under our credit facility may be reduced by the amount of unfunded bank commitments. Our inability to access funds under our credit facility for these reasons could result in our deferring development and redevelopment proj ects or other capital expenditures, not being able to satisfy debt maturities as they become due or satisfy loan requirements to reduce the amounts outstanding under certain loans, reducing or eliminating future cash dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash, or modifying significant aspects of our business strategy. 10 Table of Contents Certain of our financing arrangements contain limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur. Our credit facility is the most restrictive of our financing arrangements. Accordingly, at December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount that, based upon the restrictive covenants in the credit facility, may be borrowed through financing arrangements is $163.2 million. Additional amounts could be borrowed as long as we maintain a ratio of total-debt-to-total-asset value as defined in the credit agreement that complies with the restrictive covenants of the credit facility. We would also be required to maintain certain coverage covenants on a prospective basis which could impact our ability to borrow these additional amounts. Management believes we are in compliance with all covenants under our financing arrangements at December 31, 2009. Through the amendment of our cr edit facility in March 2010, our borrowing capacity has been reduced by $100 million. Our ability to borrow and make distributions could be adversely affected by financial covenants. Our mortgage indebtedness and credit facility impose certain financial and operating restrictions on our properties, on our secured subordinated financing, and additional financings on properties. These restrictions include restrictions on borrowings, prepayments and distributions. Additionally, our credit facility requires certain financial tests to be met, such as the total amount of recourse indebtedness to which we are permitted to take on and some of our mortgage indebtedness provides for prepayment penalties, each of which could restrict our financial flexibility. Our credit facility also has payment requirements to reduce the amount that may be outstanding at any one time which also could restrict our financial flexibility and liquidity. Moreover, our failure to sat isfy certain financial covenants in our financing arrangements may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock or preferred stock. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could affect our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing, or have other adverse effects on us or the market or trading price of our outstanding securities. The U.S. and global equity and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility and liquidity disruptions which have caused the market prices of stocks to fluctuate substantially and the credit spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have had a significantly negative impact on liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive or unavailable. Continued uncertainty in the equity and credit markets will negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms or at all. In the event of a debt financing, our cost of borrowing in the future will likely be significantly higher than historical levels. In the case of a common equity financing, the disrupt ions in the financial markets could continue to have a material adverse effect on the market value of our Common Shares, potentially requiring us to issue more shares than we would otherwise have issued with a higher market value for our Common Shares. These financial market circumstances will negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions, undertake new development projects and refinance our debt. These circumstances have also made it more difficult for us to sell properties and may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers are experiencing increased costs of financing and difficulties in obtaining financing. There is a risk that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will not restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of equity or credit financing. Current market conditions are also adversely affecting many of our tenants and their businesses, including their ability to pay rents when due. Tenants may also involuntarily terminate or stop paying on leases prior to the lease termination date due to bankruptcy. Tenants may decide not to renew leases and we may not be able to re-let the space the tenant vacates. The terms of renewals, including the cost of required improvements or concessions, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our cash flow could decrease and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. The obligation to reduce the borrowing availability under our secured corporate credit facility may adversely impact our liquidity, the availability of funds to operate, ability to extend the maturity date of the facility, and refinance the facility at maturity with replacement financing. Our secured corporate credit facility is scheduled to mature in December 2010 with two, one-year extension options available to December 2011 and December 2012, respectively, subject to our satisfaction of certain conditions, including, but not limited to the reduction of the borrowing availability under the facility. In connection with reducing the borrowing availability under the facility, we are required to fund repayments of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness under the facility at the time we exercise each extension option. The reduction of the borrowing availability under the corporate credit facility could adversely impact our ability to fund developments, acquisitions, joint venture initiatives, other debt financing, and our overall operations. In the event that we are unable to fund the payments or fail to satisfy other conditions required to extend the term of our credit facility or refinance the facility at maturity, we would need to repay the balance at maturity which would adversely affect our liquidity and cash reserves. Moreover, under such circumstances we may be unable to obtain replacement financing for our credit facility at the same amount, at favorable interest rates, or upon favorable financing terms. Additionally, our failure to secure replacement financing with a term in excess of one year may result in an adverse change in the credit ratings provided for certain of our securities. Lastly, our inability to find replacement financing for our credit facility also could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and REIT distribution requirements. 11 Table of Contents Our variable rate debt obligations may impede our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage, as well as adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to you. Required repayments of debt and related interest can adversely affect our operating performance. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $281.6 million of our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate. This includes $39.7 million of debt, for which a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR would have no impact on earnings due to the minimum interest rate provisions included in these loan agreements. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates on our existing indebtedness would increase interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions as well as the amount of any distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009 increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interes t expense on our existing variable rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.4 million annually. The Board of Trustees has unlimited authority to increase the amount of debt that we may incur. The Board of Trustees (the “Board”) determines financing objectives and the amount of the indebtedness that we may incur and may make revisions to these objectives at any time without a vote of our shareholders. Although the Board has no present intention to change these objectives, revisions could result in a more highly leveraged company with an increased risk of default on indebtedness, an increase in debt service charges, and the addition of new financial covenants that restrict our business. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our Common Shares as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our Common Shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, guarantees, preferred shares, hybrid securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive distributions of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our Common Shares. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future secondary offerings may be influenced by market conditions and other factors beyond our control , we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future secondary offerings or debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. There may be future dilution of our Common Shares and resales of our Common Shares in the public market following any secondary offering we do that may cause the market price for our Common Shares to decline. Our Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (the “Declaration of Trust”) authorizes the Board to, among other things, issue additional common or preferred shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional common or preferred shares or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to our common shareholders. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted share units, share appreciation rights, options, or warrants to purchase our Common Shares in the future and those share appreciation rights, options, or warrants are exercised or the restricted share units vest, our common shareholders may experience further dilution. H olders of our Common Shares have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our common shareholders. Furthermore, the resale by shareholders of our Common Shares in the public market following any secondary offering could have the effect of depressing the market price for our Common Shares. 12 Table of Contents The return on our investment in Scottsdale Quarter may be adversely impacted by inherent risks related to financing, joint venture operations, new competing developments or operations, and the condition of the national and regional economy. Our development at Scottsdale Quarter, a premium retail and office complex consisting of approximately 600,000 square feet of gross leasable area, in Scottsdale, Arizona, is our most significant real estate development project at December 31, 2009. We commenced development of the project through a joint venture and have financed construction through a $220 million construction loan for which we, through the Operating Partnership, provided a limited payment and performance guaranty ranging from 10-50% of the outstanding loan amount based upon the achievement of certain financial performance ratios under the construction loan. We and our joint venture partner have various obligations and commitments under the joint venture agreements with respect to completing construction of the development and operating t he facility, all of which if not completed as contemplated could adversely impact our return on our investment, the operation of the development, and its profitability. In the event our joint venture partner is unable or unwilling to complete its portion of the development then we may need to forego the completion of that aspect of the development which may adversely impact our return on our investment, the operation of the development, and its profitability. Moreover, delays in completing the various phases of the development due to construction, financing, or development difficulties may adversely impact our ability to effectively lease the development because some tenants may have clauses in their leases which permit them to delay opening or payment of lease charges until certain portions of the development or certain other tenants are open and operating. Leasing delays can also adversely impact our return on our investment, the operation of the development, and its profitability. Lastly, the development is located in a growing part of the state of Arizona and subject to the economic trends of the area. If the impact of the national recession worsens the economic condition of the area, then the ability of retailers and other tenants to meet their lease obligations due to reduced consumer spending, poor operating results, diminished liquidity, unavailability of inventory financing, or other reasons could decrease the revenue generated by the development or its value which could increase the impairment risk with respect to the property and adversely impact our return on our investment in the development as well as its profitability. The market value, or trading price, of our preferred and Common Shares could decrease based upon uncertainty in the marketplace and market perception. The market price of our common and preferred shares may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares. Among the factors that could adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares are: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in our FFO, revenue, or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs; · speculation in the press or investment community; · any changes in our distribution or dividend policy; · any sale or disposal of properties within our portfolio; · any future issuances of equity securities; · increases in leverage, mortgage debt financing, or outstanding borrowings; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, joint ventures, or restructurings; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry; · proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; or · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves or affect us. 13 Table of Contents We may change the dividend policy for our Common Shares in the future. A recent Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, revenue procedure allows us to satisfy our REIT distribution requirement with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011 by distributing up to 90% of our dividends in common shares in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash. Although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011, we have not done so and do not currently have any intention to do so with respect to any of our regular quarterly dividends. The issuance of common shares in lieu of paying dividends in cash could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and FFO per share and could result in the resale by shareholders of our Common Shares in the public market following such a distribution, which could have the effect of depressing the market price for our Common Shares. In the event that we pay a portion of a dividend in common shares, taxable U.S. shareholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid in common shares, in which case such shareholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividend, including with respect to all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares. In addition, if a signific ant number of our shareholders sell our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends or for other purposes, such sales may put downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. The decision to declare and pay dividends on our Common Shares in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of the Board and will depend on our earnings, funds from operations, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual prohibitions or other limitations under our indebtedness, the distribution requirement necessary for us to both maintain our REIT qualification under the Code, and avoid (and/or minimize) the income and/or excise tax liability that we would otherwise incur under the rules applicable to REITs on our taxable income and gain in the event we do not distribute, state law and such other factors as the Board deems relevant. Under our existing credit facility, distributions on our Common Shares are limited to the greater of $0.40 per Common Share annually or the minimum amount required to maintain REIT status which could result in one or more adjustments in our dividend policy. Any change to our dividend policy for our Common Shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Shares. The terms of our current credit facility prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, which could cause us to be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed income. Under our current credit facility, distributions on our Common Shares are limited to the greater of $0.40 per Common Share annually or the minimum amount required to maintain REIT status. We are generally required to distribute an amount equal to 90% of our REIT taxable income to maintain REIT status, and may be restricted from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income pursuant to the terms of our facility. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our REIT taxable income, we would be subject to tax on undistributed amounts at regular corporate rates. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE because it trades below $1.00 for an extended period of time or otherwise there could be a negative effect on our business that could significantly impact our financial condition, our operating results, and our ability to service our debt obligations. Although the per share price of our common Stock has remained above $1.00, in the event the average per share closing price of our common stock is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE. The threat of delisting our common stock could have adverse effects by, among other things: · reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; · eliminating the open market trading of our common stock; · reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock; and · reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our trustees, officers and employees through the use of equity-based compensation and equity incentives. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to operate or dispose of any partially-owned properties that we may acquire may be restricted. Our ownership of properties through partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for wholly-owned properties. These risks include the possibility that our partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, might have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or make requests contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may need the consent of our partners for major decisions affecting properties that are partially-owned. Joint venture agreements may also contain provisions that could cause us to sell all or a portion of our interest in, or buy all or a portion of our partners’ interests i n, such entity or property. These provisions may be triggered at a time when it is not advantageous for us to either buy our partners’ interests or sell our interest. Additionally, if we serve as the managing member of a property-owning joint venture, we may have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the other participants in such entity. There is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures; however, covenants of our unsecured credit facility limit the amount of capital that we may invest in joint ventures at any one time. Our charter and bylaws and the laws of the state of our incorporation contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transactions that could provide shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our Common Shares. In order to maintain GRT’s qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding common shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of the taxable year. Additionally, 100 or more persons must beneficially own the outstanding common shares during the last 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter tax year. To ensure that GRT will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, GRT’s organizational documents authorize the Board to take such action as may be required to preserve GRT’s qualification as a REIT and to limit any person, other than Herbert Glimcher, David Glimcher (only with respect to the limitation on the ownership of outstanding common shares) and any entities or persons approved by the Board, to direct or indirect ownership exceeding: (i) 8.0% of the lesser of the number or value of GRT’s outstanding shares of beneficial interest (including common and preferred shares), (ii) 9.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the total 8¾% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (“Series F Preferred Shares”) outstanding, and (iii) 9.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the total 8⅛% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (“Series G Preferred Shares”) outstanding. Herbert Glimcher and David Glimcher are limited to an aggregate of 25% direct or indirect ownership of common shares outstanding without approval of the Board. The Board has also granted an exemption to Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc., permitting them to own, directly or indirectly, of record or beneficially (i) up to 600,000 Series F Preferred Shares and (ii) up to 14.9% of the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding shares of any other class of the GRT’s equity securities. The Board has also granted an exemption to Neuberger Berman permitting them to own 608,800 Series G Preferred Shares. Despite these provisions, GRT cannot be sure that there will not be five or fewer individuals who will own more than 50% in value of its outstanding Com mon Shares, thereby causing GRT to fail to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limits may also discourage a change in control in GRT. The members of the Board are currently divided into three equal classes whose terms expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Each year one class of trustees is elected by GRT’s shareholders to hold office for three years. The staggered terms for Board members may affect the ability of GRT shareholders to change control of GRT even if a change in control were in the interests of the shareholders. GRT’s Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board to establish one or more series of preferred shares, in addition to those currently outstanding, and to determine the preferences, rights and other terms of any series. The Board could authorize GRT to issue other series of preferred shares that could deter or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction that some, or a majority, of GRT shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or in which GRT shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the prevailing market price of such shares. 15 Table of Contents The Declaration of Trust and our Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of GRT’s shareholders. As a Maryland REIT, GRT is subject to the provisions of the Maryland REIT law which imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur, thus delaying or preventing offers to acquire GRT or increasing the difficulty of completing an acquisition of GRT, even if the acquisition is in the best interests of GRT’s shareholders. Risks associated with information systems may interfere with our operations. We are continuing to implement new information systems and problems with the design or implementation of these new systems could interfere with our operations. Our operations could be affected if we lose any key management personnel. Our executive officers have substantial experience in owning, operating, managing, acquiring and developing shopping centers. Success depends in large part upon the efforts of these executives, and we cannot guarantee that they will remain with us. The loss of key management personnel in leasing, finance, legal, construction, development, or operations could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, except for isolated examples, there are generally no restrictions on the ability of these executives to compete with us after termination of their employment. Inflation may influence our operations. Inflation risks could impact our operations due to increases in construction costs as well as other costs pertinent to our business, including, but not limited to, the cost of insurance and utilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 