ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business along with the consolidated financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may continue to incur additional losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $42.2 million, $15.0 million and $37.1 million for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The net loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 included a $26.9 million non-cash loss on the early extinguishment of debt. The net loss for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 was $2.7 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Although we believe we are approaching a position of producing net income in the foreseeable future, we are also currently investing heavily in our expansion plans in Virginia and California. As a result, we will incur higher depreciation and other operating expenses that will negatively impact our ability to achieve and sustain profitability unless and until these new facilities generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and cover additional overhead needed to scale our business to this anticipated growth. Although our goal is to achieve profitability, there can be no guarantee that we will become profitable, and we may continue to incur additional losses. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competitive nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our products and services must be able to differentiate themselves from existing providers of space and services for telecommunications companies, web hosting companies, virtualized IT solutions and other colocation providers. In addition to competing with neutral colocation providers, we must compete with traditional colocation providers, including local phone companies, long distance phone companies, Internet service providers and web hosting facilities. Likewise, with respect to our other products and services, including managed services, bandwidth services and security services, we must compete with more established providers of similar services. Most of these companies have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. As a result, in the future, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, these competitors could offer colocation on neutral terms, and may start doing so in the same metropolitan areas where we have NAP centers. Some of these competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communication services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than obtaining space in our data centers. If our competitors were able to adopt aggressive pricing policies together with offering colocation space, our ability to generate revenues would be materially adversely affected. We may also face competition from persons seeking to replicate our Internet Exchanges concept by building new centers or converting existing centers that some of our competitors are in the process of divesting. We may experience competition from our landlords in this regard. Rather than licensing our available space to large single tenants, they may decide to convert the space instead to smaller square foot units designed for multi-tenant colocation use. Landlords may enjoy a cost effective advantage in providing similar services as our data centers, and this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. Competitors may operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Furthermore, enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in outsourcing arrangements may be reluctant or slow to adopt our approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. In addition, other companies may be able to attract the same potential customers that we are targeting. Once customers are located in competitors’ facilities, it may be extremely difficult to convince them to relocate to our data centers. 11 Table of Contents We anticipate that a significant portion of our revenues will be from contracts with agencies of the United States government, and uncertainties in government contracts could adversely affect our business. During the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues under contracts with agencies of the U.S. federal government constituted approximately 16% of our revenues. Generally, U.S. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by government representatives, to profit and cost controls and limitations, and to provisions permitting modification or termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience. In some cases, government contracts are subject to the uncertainties surrounding congressional appropriations or agency funding. Government contracts are also subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from future government contracting for a period of time, which could limit our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Government contracts typically have an initial term of one year. Renewal periods are exercisable at the discretion of the U.S. government. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace U.S. government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few clients; accordingly, a reduction in our clients’ demand for our services or the loss of clients could impair our financial performance. During the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, we derived approximately 16% and 20%, respectively, of our revenues from agencies of the federal government. Because we derive a large percentage of our revenues from a few major customers, our revenues could significantly decline if we lose one or more of these customers or if the amount of business we obtain from them is reduced. See “Business — Customers.” A failure to meet customer specifications or expectations could result in lost revenues, increased expenses, negative publicity, claims for damages and harm to our reputation and cause demand for our services to decline. Our agreements with customers require us to meet specified service levels for the services we provide. In addition, our customers may have additional expectations about our services. Any failure to meet customers’ specifications or expectations could result in: • delayed or lost revenue; • requirements to provide additional services to a customer at reduced charges or no charge; • negative publicity about us, which could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • claims by customers for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, which may not be covered by insurance policies and which may not be limited by contractual terms of our engagement. Our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially impaired if we are unable to deploy new infrastructure systems and applications or if new infrastructure systems and applications deployed by us prove to be unreliable, defective or incompatible. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of hosting and application management services in the future. If any newly introduced infrastructure systems and applications suffer from reliability, quality or compatibility problems, market acceptance of our services could be greatly hindered and our ability to attract new customers could be significantly reduced. We cannot assure you that new applications deployed by us will be free from any reliability, quality or compatibility problems. If we incur increased costs or are unable, for technical or other reasons, to host and manage new infrastructure systems and applications or enhancements of existing applications, our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially limited. 12 Table of Contents Any interruptions in, or degradation of, our private transit Internet connections could result in the loss of customers or hinder our ability to attract new customers. Our customers rely on our ability to move their digital content as efficiently as possible to the people accessing their websites and infrastructure systems and applications. We utilize our direct private transit Internet connections to major network providers, such as AT&T and Global Crossing as a means of avoiding congestion and resulting performance degradation at public Internet exchange points. We rely on these telecommunications network suppliers to maintain the operational integrity of their networks so that our private transit Internet connections operate effectively. If our private transit Internet connections are interrupted or degraded, we may face claims by, or lose, customers, and our reputation in the industry may be harmed, which may cause demand for our services to decline. Our network and computing infrastructure could fail, which would impair our ability to provide guaranteed levels of service and could result in significant operating losses. To provide our customers with guaranteed levels of service, we must operate our network and computing infrastructure 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. We must, therefore, protect our infrastructure, equipment and customer files against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster, equipment failure or other unanticipated problem at one or more of our data centers could result in interruptions in the services we provide to our customers. We cannot assure you that our disaster recovery plan will address all, or even most, of the problems we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problem. We have experienced service interruptions in the past, and any future service interruptions could: • require us to spend substantial amounts of money to replace equipment or facilities; • entitle customers to claim service credits or seek damages for losses under our service level guarantees; • cause customers to seek alternate providers; or • impede our ability to attract new customers, retain current customers or enter into additional strategic relationships. Our dependence on third parties increases the risk that we will not be able to meet our customers’ needs for software, systems and services on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could result in the loss of customers. Our services and infrastructure rely on products and services of third-party providers. We purchase key components of our infrastructure from a limited number of suppliers, such as IBM, Cisco Systems, Inc., Microsoft and Oracle. We may experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of third-party software, systems and services. We may not have the necessary hardware or parts on hand or that our suppliers will be able to provide them in a timely manner in the event of equipment failure. Our inability to timely obtain and continue to maintain the necessary hardware or parts could result in sustained equipment failure and a loss of revenue due to customer loss or claims for service credits under our service level guarantees. We could be subject to increased operating costs, as well as claims, litigation or other potential liability, in connection with risks associated with Internet security and the security of our systems. A significant barrier to the growth of e-commerce and communications over the Internet has been the need for secure transmission of confidential information. Several of our infrastructure systems and application services use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the protections necessary to ensure secure transmission of confidential information. We also rely on security systems designed by third parties and the personnel in our network operations centers to secure those data centers. Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions and other disruptions could result in increased operating costs. 13 Table of Contents For example, we may incur additional significant costs to protect against these interruptions and the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these interruptions or breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate a consumer’s personal or proprietary information, including credit card information, during the use of an application solution provided by us, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liability as well as loss of reputation. We may be subject to legal claims in connection with the information disseminated through our network, which could divert management’s attention and require us to expend significant financial resources. We may face liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature of the materials disseminated through our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by some of our customers may be regulated or banned. In these and other instances, we may be required to engage in protracted and expensive litigation that could have the effect of diverting management’s attention from our business and require us to expend significant financial resources. Our general liability insurance may not cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial e-mails from servers hosted at our facilities to a number of people, typically to advertise products or services. This practice, known as “spamming,” can lead to statutory liability as well as complaints against service providers that enable these activities, particularly where recipients view the materials received as offensive. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, letters from recipients of information transmitted by our customers objecting to the transmission. Although we prohibit our customers by contract from spamming, we cannot assure you that our customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages. We may become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties that could substantially harm our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. It is likely that laws and regulations directly applicable to the Internet or to hosting and managed application service providers may be adopted. These laws may cover a variety of issues, including user privacy and the pricing, characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to commerce over the Internet could substantially impair the growth of our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet and hosting and managed application service providers is uncertain. These existing laws could expose us to substantial liability if they are found to be applicable to our business. For example, we provide services over the Internet in many states in the United States and elsewhere and facilitate the activities of our customers in these jurisdictions. As a result, we may be required to qualify to do business, be subject to taxation or be subject to other laws and regulations in these jurisdictions, even if we do not have a physical presence, employees or property in those states. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business conditions could harm our business in international markets. For the year ended March 31, 2008, 13% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents We have significant debt service obligations which will require the use of a substantial portion of our available cash. We are a highly leveraged company. For a description of our outstanding debt, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Should we need additional capital or financing, our ability to arrange financing and the cost of this financing will depend upon many factors, including: • general economic and capital markets conditions, and in particular the non-investment grade debt market; • conditions in the Internet infrastructure market; • credit availability from banks or other lenders; • investor confidence in the telecommunications industry generally and our company specifically; and • the success of our facilities We may be unable to find additional sources of liquidity on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, a default could result in acceleration of our indebtedness. If this occurs, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our Credit Facilities, Senior Convertible Notes, and Series B Notes contain numerous restrictive covenants. Our Credit Facilities, our Senior Convertible Notes and our Series B Notes, contain numerous covenants imposing restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur more debt; • pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions; • make acquisitions or investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with others; • dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; • create liens on our assets • capital expenditures; and • extend credit. Our failure to comply with the obligations in our Credit Agreements, Senior Convertible Notes, and Series B Notes could result in an event of default under the credit facilities and such notes which, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of the indebtedness or our other indebtedness, or result in the same consequences as a default in payment. If the acceleration of the maturity of our debt occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on terms that are acceptable to us, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial leverage and indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our growth and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and may, among other things: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 15 Table of Contents • limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal payments and fund debt service requirements; • cause us to be unable to satisfy our obligations under our existing or new debt agreements; • make us more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to compete with others who are not as highly leveraged as we are; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, industry and market conditions. In addition, subject to restrictions in our existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would all likely intensify. Our growth plans and our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness, will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to enter into additional debt and/or equity financings. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to do any of the foregoing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may be delisted by the NASDAQ and our stockholders could find it difficult to sell our common stock. As of May 14, 2007 our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ requires companies to fulfill specific requirements in order for their shares to continue to be listed. Our securities may be considered for delisting if: • our financial condition and operating results appear to be unsatisfactory; • we have sustained losses that are so substantial in relation to our overall operations or our existing financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. If our shares are delisted from the NASDAQ, our stockholders could find it difficult to sell our stock. To date, we have had no communication from the NASDAQ regarding delisting. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ, we may apply to have our shares quoted on NASDAQ’s Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. The Bulletin Board and the “pink sheets” are generally considered to be less efficient markets than the NASDAQ. In addition, if our shares are no longer listed on the NASDAQ or another national securities exchange in the United States, our shares may be subject to the “penny stock” regulations. If our common stock were to become subject to the penny stock regulations it is likely that the price of our common stock would decline and that our stockholders would find it more difficult to sell their shares on a liquid and efficient market. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, or increased costs of energy. A significant amount of our business is dependent upon the continued operation of the NAP of the Americas building. The NAP of the Americas building and our other NAP facilities are susceptible to regional costs of power, electrical power shortages and planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages. A power shortage at an internet exchange facility may result in an increase of the cost of energy, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. Power outages that last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements could harm our customers and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our success. We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not maintain 16 Table of Contents keyman life insurance with respect to these key individuals. Our recent and potential growth and expansion are expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. Our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could impair our ability to manage and operate our business effectively. We may encounter difficulties implementing our expansion plan. We expect that we may encounter challenges and difficulties in implementing our expansion plan to establish new Internet exchange facilities in domestic locations in which we believe there is significant demand for our services. These challenges and difficulties relate to our ability to: • identify and obtain the use of locations in which we believe there is sufficient demand for our services; • generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through additional debt or equity financings to support these expansion plans; • hire, train and retain sufficient additional financial reporting management, operational and technical employees; and • install and implement new financial and other systems, procedures and controls to support this expansion plan with minimal delays. If we encounter greater than anticipated difficulties in implementing our expansion plan, it may be necessary to take additional actions, which could divert management’s attention and strain our operational and financial resources. We may not successfully address any or all of these challenges, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business plan and results of operations, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to achieve enhanced profitability. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile (ranging from $4.64 per share to $8.79 per share during the 52-week trading period ending March 31, 2008). Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The factors that could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly include the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • future issuances of common stock or other securities; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. We expect that the price of our common stock will be significantly affected by the availability of shares for sale in the market. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact its price. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. On March 31, 2008, there were approximately 59.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding and approximately 14.1 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to our 9% Senior Convertible Notes, 6.625% Senior 17 Table of Contents Convertible Notes, Series B Notes, Series I convertible preferred stock, options, nonvested stock and warrants to purchase our common stock, which consist of: • 2,324,800 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 9% Senior Convertible Notes; • 4,575,200 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 6.625% Senior Convertible Notes; • 492,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our Series B Notes; • 1,041,333 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our Series I convertible preferred stock; • 2,303,138 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options; • 976,245 shares of our nonvested stock; and • 2,364,187 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants. Accordingly, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock are likely to become available for sale in the foreseeable future, which may have an adverse impact on our stock price. Our common shares are thinly traded and, therefore, relatively illiquid. As of March 31, 2008, we had 59,172,022 common shares outstanding. While our common shares trade on the NASDAQ, our stock is thinly traded (approximately 0.4%, or 261,002 shares, of our stock traded on an average daily basis during the year ended March 31, 2008) and you may have difficulty in selling your shares quickly. The low trading volume of our common stock is outside of our control, and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained. Existing stockholders’ interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund the acquisition of additional businesses and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of the shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares. We have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in accordance with the terms of our new credit facilities. Furthermore, we may not pay cash or stock dividends without the written consent of the lenders. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement under which we sold the Series B Notes to Credit Suisse, International, our ability to pay dividends is similarly restricted. Further, the terms of our Series I convertible preferred stock provide that, in the event we pay any dividends on our common stock, an additional dividend must be paid with respect to all of our outstanding Series I convertible preferred stock in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of dividends that would be owed for all shares of commons stock into which the shares of Series I convertible preferred stock could be converted at such time. Therefore, an investor in our common stock will obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 18 Table of Contents 