RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Business Emerging Markets Risks Many of the countries that we operate in have had a history of political instability and any current or future instability may negatively affect our revenues or ability to conduct our business locally. We offer mobile telephony services in 16 emerging markets in Central and South America, Africa and Asia. Many of the countries in which we operate are considered to be emerging economies and, therefore, can be subject to greater political and economic risk than developed countries. The governments of these 16 countries differ widely with respect to type of government, constitution, and stability. Many of these 16 countries lack mature legal and regulatory systems. Some of the countries in which we operate, particularly Chad and Sri Lanka, suffer from political instability, civil unrest, or war-like actions by anti-government insurgent groups. These problems may continue or worsen, potentially resulting in civil war in these countries. Other countries in which we operate have only recently emerged from civil war and are attempting to rebuild their economies and governments, such as Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo. As a result of the above, we face several risks, ranging from the risk that our networks may be disrupted to the risk that we may have to evacuate some or all of our key staff from certain countries, in which case there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to conduct our local business as previously. Any of these events would adversely impact our revenues or results of operations. Most of the countries in which we operate have weak legal and telecommunications regulatory regimes compared to those in developed countries and this creates risks for our operations. In order for our operations to provide mobile services, they must receive a license from the government of the country in which they operate. Our ability to operate is therefore dependent on the licenses granted by the government of each country. These licenses generally allow our companies to operate for a number of years, after which they are subject to renewal. To the extent that our operations depend on governmental approval and regulatory decisions, our local business may be adversely affected by changes in the political structure or by actions or decisions of specific government representatives in the relevant market. It is possible that a government could decide arbitrarily to revoke a license or impose new conditions that we do not agree with and may not get consulted about in advance. We may not always have access to efficient avenues for appeal and may have to accept arbitrary conditions imposed upon us. This could adversely impact our business and our revenues. Our favored recourse is often to the legal system of the relevant country; however, the legal and court systems of many countries in which we operate tend to be poorly developed and can be subject to political influence and other inherent uncertainties. It can therefore be difficult to obtain a rapid, fair and unbiased resolution of disagreements with governmental authorities. Even where we have other options, such as claiming compensation in arbitration proceedings for violations of a bilateral investment treaty, the process can be lengthy and costly. Even when the outcome is successful, the enforcement of any award favorable to us could be a challenge. 8 Some of the countries in which we operate have political regimes that do not view foreign business interests favorably and may attempt to expropriate all or part of our local assets or impose controls on our operations. This risk potentially exists in any of the countries in which we operate, but might be highest in Bolivia at the moment under the current Government. The government of President Evo Morales in Bolivia had initially declared that a nationalization of the telecommunications sector may be contemplated in connection with the government's decision to regain more control over the Bolivian economy, as shown by certain measures implemented in the oil & gas sector in 2005-2006. We believe that nationalization of the telecommunications sector will probably not occur but that the Bolivian government will attempt to impose measures to lower tariffs offered to customers and improve the offer and availability of mobile telephony and other telecommunications services in isolated rural areas, or increased taxes on private foreign-owned businesses such as Telecel, our Bolivian operation, to increase government revenues. Measures like these may have the effect of increasing our network rollout costs and reducing the profitability of our Bolivian operation. Most of the countries in which we operate have underdeveloped economies with low gross domestic product ("GDP") per capita and therefore increased inflationary pressures and downturns could significantly impact our revenues. Our operations are dependent on the health of the economies of the markets in which we operate. We offer our services in emerging market countries with economies at various stages of development or structural reform. Most of the economies of the countries in which we operate have large sectors where a percentage of the local population earns a living on a day-to-day basis and primarily spends its income on basic items such as food, housing and clothing, and has less income to spend on mobile telephony services. Therefore, downturns in the economies of any particular country or region in which we operate may adversely affect demand for our services, which would result in reduced revenues. Some of these countries have historically experienced high inflation rates, although in the recent years inflation rates in all countries where we operate have been relatively low. Periods of significant inflation in any of our markets could adversely affect our costs and financial condition. Most of the countries where we operate lack infrastructure or have infrastructure in very poor condition and, particularly in Africa, have an insufficient electricity supply. With the exception of Mauritius, the countries in which we operate often lack basic infrastructure or have infrastructure in poor or very poor condition, including in particular roads and power networks. The lack of suitable infrastructure is particularly acute in countries recovering from civil wars, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sierra Leone, and in countries suffering from civil war-like events, such as Chad and Sri Lanka. In general, the rural areas in each of our operations often lack even the most basic infrastructure, as any development tends to be concentrated in urban areas. Millicom must often build its cell sites without the benefit of roads and other infrasctructures, which increases our network development costs. The electricity supply is insufficient in certain countries in which we operate (predominantly Africa, with the exception of Mauritius) due to the growth experienced in such countries. We therefore have to rely on diesel-powered generators that we source, install, maintain and refuel. In Chad and Sierra Leone, at December 31, 2007, close to 100% of our radio sites were powered by diesel-powered generators, and in the Democratic Republic of Congo it was the case for about 75% of our sites. This increases our costs and impacts the profitability of our African operations. 9 We have been subject to increasing foreign taxes in the countries in which we operate, which reduces amounts we receive from our operations and may increase our tax costs. Many of the foreign countries in which we operate have implemented new taxes or increased the rates of existing taxes applicable to corporations as a method of raising government revenue. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressure or the provisions of new tax laws may prevent us from passing these taxes onto our local customers. Consequently, any increase in taxes applicable to our local operating subsidiaries could reduce the amount of earnings they generate. We could be subject to the impact of a deteriorating economic environment within the developed countries. Many of our countries receive significant inflows of funds from relatives and friends in developed countries that work abroad. A significant deterioration in the developed country economies could impact the ability of those abroad to continue remitting funds because of job losses or reduced wages. Currently, we have not seen a noticeable adverse impact because the job losses in developed markets have been mainly in industries, such as the financial sector, with limited or no impact on the jobs that normally attract the immigrant workers, but this situation could change if the economic environment gets worse. Lower remittances would reduce the disposable income which would impact our revenues. The recent increase in food prices within developed countries could have an inflationary impact on the emerging market economies. A significant increase in food prices within our operating markets could impact the consumers' ability to pay for our products and services. Currently, we have not seen a noticeable difference in consumer behavior towards our products and services. This might be because there is an agricultural sector in many of the economies in which we operate which could be providing protection against inflationary food prices seen in developed countries, or because our products and services are essential for basic communication which is relatively high on the list of customer needs and therefore consumers are making sacrifices to continue spending on our services. However, this situation could change if food prices remain higher than before or increase. Currency fluctuations or devaluations reduce the amount of profit and assets that we are able to report. Exchange rates for currencies of the countries in which our companies operate fluctuate in relation to the US$ and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, assets or cash flows when translating local currency into US$. For each venture that reports its results in a currency other than the US$, a decrease in the value of that currency against the US$ reduces our profits while also reducing both our assets and liabilities. To the extent that our operations retain earnings or distribute dividends in local currencies, the amount of US$ we receive is affected by fluctuations of exchange rates for such currencies against the US$, which could affect our results of operations. We generally do not hedge our foreign currency exposures. Millicom had a net exchange gain of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to a gain of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, excluding an exchange loss of $36 million on the 5% Mandatory Exchangeable Notes. Most of our operations receive revenue denominated in the local currency of the venture's country of operation. In the future, any of the countries in which these operations are located may impose foreign exchange controls which will restrict our ability to receive funds from the operations. Most of the operations in which we have interests receive substantially all of their revenues in the currency of the countries in which they operate. We derive substantially all of our revenues through funds generated by our local operations and, therefore, we rely on their ability to transfer funds to the Company. 10 Although there are foreign exchange controls in some of the countries in which our mobile telephone companies operate, none of these countries currently significantly restrict the ability of these operations to pay interest and dividends and repay loans by exporting cash, instruments of credit or securities in foreign currencies. Although we have so far experienced no major difficulty in obtaining permits to allow our operations to upstream cash directly or indirectly to the ultimate parent company of the Millicom group, this may not be the case in the future. Foreign exchange control restrictions may be introduced in countries where we operate or strengthened where such restrictions already exist, or other countries where we operate that do not currently have such restrictions may decide to impose them, in which cases the Company's ability to receive funds from the operations will subsequently be restricted, which will negatively impact the Company's revenues. In addition, in some countries, it may be difficult to convert large amounts of local currency into foreign currency because of limited foreign exchange markets. The practical effects of this are time delays in accumulating significant amounts of foreign currency and exchange risk, which could have an adverse effect on the Group's results of operations. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exposure may be limited by restrictions on borrowings in local currency. At the operations level, we seek to reduce our foreign exchange exposure through a policy of matching, as far as possible, cash inflows and outflows. Where possible and where it is financially viable, we borrow in local currency to help hedge against local currency net inflows. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exchange exposure may be limited by restrictions on borrowings in local currency. As such, there is a risk that we may not be able to fund our local operation's capital expenditure needs or reduce our foreign exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency. We own our operations through holding companies in jurisdictions which may effect changes to their respective laws that may unfavorably affect our financial status or tax treatment. We hold the interests in our mobile telephone companies through our subsidiaries in various jurisdictions in and outside Luxembourg, mainly but not exclusively through holding companies incorporated in the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles. The laws or administrative practices relating to taxation (including the current position as to withholding taxes on dividends paid by our local operations and tax concessions we have obtained in certain of our countries of operation), foreign exchange controls, or other matters, are periodically subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial affairs and on our ability to receive, or the tax treatment of, funds from our local operations. Our failure to comply with worldwide laws and regulations could result in liabilities and sanctions and this would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to several laws and regulations with worldwide application, including as promulgated by: •the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), •the European Union (EU), through directives that are either directly applicable or that get translated into the law of the country of incorporation, •the federal laws of the United States of America, including the securities laws thereof and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997, and •the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, where the Company is incorporated. 11 These laws and regulations impact where and how our business may be conducted. In addition, our shareholders, lenders, suppliers or other entities with which the Company and its operating subsidiaries conduct business may be subject to or seek to comply with these laws and regulations. Even though the Company has increased its compliance efforts, there is always a risk that non-compliance issues may arise with respect to the Company or its operating subsidiaries or any employee thereof. Any instances of non-compliance may result in consequences ranging from negative publicity and reputational damage to criminal and civil liability and the application of fines or disgorgement of profits to the Company on account of any of its employees or directors or the employees or directors of any of its operating subsidiaries. Any of the foregoing would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or the results of operations. Risks Related to our Operations and the Mobile Telephony Market We face intense competition in the mobile telephone operator market. Our mobile telephony operations face competition from other mobile telephone operators in the markets in which they operate, as well as fixed line operators in some markets. We expect that additional mobile telephony licenses will be granted in some of our existing markets. Moreover, additional licenses may be awarded in markets where we already face competition from other technologies that are being or may be developed and/or perfected in the future. In some of our markets, there may be more mobile telephone operators than the market is likely to sustain. In addition, in some of our markets, our competitors may have a greater coverage area than us. The mobile telephone operators in each market compete for customers principally on the basis of services offered, quality of service, coverage area, accessibility of distribution and price. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources than we do. Price competition is significant. In addition, new competitors, such as mobile and fixed line operators in developed markets that are able to leverage their existing networks may enter emerging markets. The level of competition is influenced by the continuous and swift technological advances that characterize the industry, the regulatory developments that affect competition and alliances between market participants. There is also a risk that, as new competitors enter into our markets and price competition intensifies, our customers may move to another mobile telephone operator. This may result in our revenue declining, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Any failure by us to compete effectively or aggressive competitive behavior by our competitors in pricing their services or acquiring new customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and overall results of operations. The mobile telephony market is heavily regulated. The licensing, construction, ownership and operation of mobile telephone networks, and the grant, maintenance and renewal of mobile telephone licenses, as well as radio frequency allocations and interconnection arrangements, are regulated by national, state, regional or local governmental authorities in the markets that we service. In addition, such matters and certain other aspects of mobile telephone operations, including rates charged to customers and the resale of mobile telephone services, may be subject to public utility regulation in the relevant market. Our operations also typically require governmental permits, including permits for the construction and operation of cell sites. We do not believe that compliance with these permit requirements generally has a material adverse effect on our company. However, we may become subject to claims or regulatory actions relating to any past or future non-compliance with permit requirements. Changes in the regulation of our activities, such as increased or decreased regulation affecting prices or requirements for increased capital investments, may materially adversely affect us. 12 Most of the countries in which we operate do not have universal service obligations and if such obligations were implemented the profitability of our operations may be negatively impacted. The purpose of universal service is to provide access to persons in non-urban areas and isolated areas with telephone and other telecommunications services by the telecommunications build-out in rural areas through subsidies. There is a telecommunications divide in all of the countries in which we operate in relation to access to telecommunications services (mobile, internet access, higher bandwidth telecommunication services) between urban and rural areas. When such services are available, they usually come at a significantly higher cost to the customer than in urban areas due to the lower population density in rural areas that are often hard to reach due to the lack of the most basic infrastructure, in particular roads and electricity. The goal of universal service is to promote the availability of quality services at fair, reasonable and affordable rates in all areas of the country, to increase access to advanced telecommunications services, and to enhance the availability of such services to all consumers, including those in isolated rural areas at rates that are reasonably comparable to those charged in urban areas. For instance, India has implemented a universal service obligation in its New Telecom Policy 1999 funded by telecommunications operators paying a part of their net earnings into the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). We therefore believe that universal service obligations are a trend in telecommunications that will eventually become law in the countries in which we operate. To date, none of the emerging markets in which we operate in have universal service obligations. We expect that most of the countries in which we operate will do so in the future. We believe this may have a negative impact on our profitability. We face substantial competition for obtaining, funding and renewing mobile telephone licenses. We may pursue new license opportunities. In each market we face competition for licenses from major international telecommunications companies as well as from local competitors. While we typically try not to pay large amounts for mobile licenses, the competition for the granting or renewal of licenses is increasingly intense worldwide. As such, we might have to pay substantial license fees in certain markets, as well as meet specified network build out requirements. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing any mobile telephone licenses or, if licenses are awarded, in obtaining those licenses on terms acceptable to us. If we obtain further licenses or renew existing ones, we may need to seek future funding through additional borrowings or equity offerings, and we may not obtain such funding on satisfactory terms or at all. Our markets are characterized by rapid technological change, which could render our products obsolete and cause us to incur substantial costs to replace our products. Fixed network and other system equipment used in the mobile telephone industry have a limited life and must be replaced frequently due to damage or as a result of ordinary wear and tear. In addition, substantial expansion of existing networks is required to remain competitive. Our networks are based on the GSM standard. The GSM standard has been most appropriate for our markets because it has the greatest availability of handsets with strong functionality and has relatively low repair and maintenance costs. As new technologies develop, such as third generation systems, including WiMAX and 3G, equipment may need to be replaced or upgraded or a mobile telephone network may need to be rebuilt in whole or in part, at substantial cost, to remain competitive. Unforeseeable technological developments may also render our services unpopular with customers or obsolete. To the extent our equipment or systems become obsolete, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge to such assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 The mobile telephony sector may be forced to open up access to its spectrum which may create further competition. In line with the current trend in the European Union ("EU"), where the European Commission intends to change spectrum regulation in such a way that spectrum (900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands) formerly reserved exclusively for GSM operators would be opened to other uses, such as 3G, we could find that new competitors are given access to the spectrum bands we operate in. Among the markets that we operate in, we believe that the region most likely to follow the trends in EU telecommunications regulation is Africa. Although we do not believe such changes will occur in the near future, we believe EU telecoms regulatory developments are likely to impact telecom regulatory trends in other parts of the world, particularly in Africa. If such trends become law, our competitive position in the relevant countries may become adversely affected. If we cannot successfully develop and manage our networks and distribution, for example as a result of natural disasters, we will be unable to expand our subscriber base and will lose market share and revenues. Our ability to increase our subscriber base depends upon the success of the expansion and management of our networks and distribution. The build-out of our networks and distribution is subject to risks and uncertainties which may delay the introduction of service and increase the cost of network construction. Such uncertainties may include natural disasters such as the tsunami in Sri Lanka (as occurred in late December 2004), the risk of hurricanes, volcanic activity and earthquakes in Central America, flooding in low-lying areas in Bolivia and Paraguay (as occurred in the first quarter of 2007) and in South-East Asia. Other risks include sabotage, which is an ongoing risk particularly in Colombia and Sri Lanka. To the extent we fail to expand our network and distribution capabilities on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in expanding our subscriber base. In addition, our ability to manage our operations successfully is dependent upon our ability to implement sufficient operational resources and infrastructure. The failure or breakdown of key components of our infrastructure, including our billing systems, may have a material negative effect on our profits and results of operations. Rapid growth and expansion may cause us difficulty in obtaining adequate managerial and operational resources and restrict our ability to expand successfully our operations. Our future operating results depend, in significant part, upon the continued contributions of key senior management and technical personnel. Management of growth will require, among other things: •stringent control of network build-out and other costs; •excellence in sales, marketing and distribution; •continued innovative product development; •continued development of financial and management controls and information technology systems; •implementation of adequate internal controls; •hiring and training of new personnel; and •coordination among our logistical, technical, accounting, legal and finance personnel. Our success will also depend on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Competition for personnel in our markets is intense due to the small number of qualified individuals available in most of our markets. Our failure to successfully manage our growth and personnel needs would have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. 14 Our operations are dependent upon interconnection agreements and transmission and leased lines. Our operations are dependent upon access to networks not controlled by us, primarily networks controlled by current or former government owned public telecommunications operators or competing mobile telephone operators. Our financial results are affected by the cost of transmission and leased lines to effect interconnection. We may not be able to maintain interconnection or leased line agreements on appropriate terms to maintain or grow our business. A number of regulators have, or are expected to, reduce interconnection rates. Because we are often one of the larger suppliers of telephone services in the countries we service, this could have the effect of reducing our revenue. In December 2007, the Colombian regulator significantly reduced the interconnect rate. Since we have a customer base that receives significantly more calls from other networks than it makes, the change in the interconnect rate has had a significant impact on the revenues and profitability of this operation. Current concerns about the actual or perceived health risks relating to electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions, as well as the extensive publicity or possible resultant litigation, may have a negative effect on the market price of our shares, our financial position or the results of our operations. Media and other reports have suggested that electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions from mobile telephone handsets and base stations may cause health problems, including cancer. There is also some concern that these emissions may interfere with the operation of certain electronic equipment, including aircraft guidance systems, automobile braking and steering systems (e.g., GPS), and civil and military radars. Although we expect that the actual or perceived risks relating to mobile communications devices and base stations, or press reports about these risks will not significantly adversely affect us, its actual impact is difficult to estimate. It may have the effect of reducing our subscriber growth rate, subscriber base or average use per subscriber, which would have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. If a link between electromagnetic or radio frequency emissions and adverse health concerns is demonstrated, government authorities will increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns. Mobile telephone operators and handset manufacturers, including us, would be held liable for all or part of the costs or damages associated with these concerns. Any such regulations, or any litigation brought by potential victims, would also have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. General Risks Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash is dependent on our future operating and financial performance. This will be impacted by our ability to implement successfully our business strategy, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash, we may, among other things, need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing, delay capital expenditures or sell assets. This could impact the operating performance of our business. Our debt may have an adverse effect on our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such debt. As of December 31, 2007, Millicom's total consolidated indebtedness was $1.8 billion. Of this amount, $0.6 billion represented the Company's indebtedness and $1.2 billion represented our consolidated share of the indebtedness of our subsidiaries and joint ventures. 15 Corporate guarantees issued by the Company secured $0.2 billion of the indebtedness of our operations at December 31, 2007. The Group's share of total debt and financing secured by either pledged assets, pledged deposits issued to cover letters of credit or guarantees issued by the Company was $0.7 billion at December 31, 2007. If we substantially increase our level of indebtedness, it may have important negative consequences for us. For example, it may: •require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to fund payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions or the loss of significant operations; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; •limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future or increase the cost of such funding; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who might have less debt. Our ability to receive funds from, and to exercise management control over, our operations can be dependent upon the consent of our partners who are not under our control. Disagreements or unfavorable terms in the agreements governing our joint ventures may adversely affect our operations. We participate in 16 mobile operations worldwide, including the following operations where we have local partners with sufficient minority rights to prevent us from having full control: Guatemala, Cambodia, Honduras and Mauritius. Our participation in each operation differs from market to market. Often our ability to withdraw funds, including dividends, from these operations and to exercise management control over our partners depends on receiving the consent of the other participants. While the precise terms of the arrangements vary, our operations may be negatively affected if disagreements develop with our partners. We rely upon dividends and other payments from our operations to generate the funds necessary to meet the Company's obligations, including the Company's debt obligations. The local operations are legally separate and distinct from the Company and have no obligation to pay amounts due with respect to the Company's obligations or to make funds available for such payments. Our local operations do not guarantee the Company's obligations. The ability of our operations to make such payments to the Company will be subject to, among other things, the availability of funds, the agreement of our partners, the terms of each operation's indebtedness and local law. The majority of our local operations have entered into financing facilities, most of which are guaranteed by the Company, many of which restrict the payment of dividends by those operations to the Company. Claims of creditors of our operations, including trade creditors, will generally have priority over our claims and the holders of our indebtedness. 16 Certain insiders own significant amounts of our shares, giving them a substantial amount of management control. Investment AB Kinnevik our largest shareholder owned 37,835,438 shares in Millicom, representing 36.9% of the voting shares as at December 31, 2007. The Kinnevik group and its subsidiaries, the non-independent directors, the Stenbeck estate, and certain Stenbeck Trusts, beneficially owned 39,868,370 shares in Millicom, representing about 38.9% of Millicom's outstanding shares as at December 31, 2007. Kinnevik and its affiliates, having a significant ownership in Millicom, have significant influence over our management and affairs. The influence that they have may not always be consistent with your interests. A substantial number of our directors hold positions with Investment AB Kinnevik ("Kinnevik") or Tele2 AB, which may present conflicts that may be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Three Millicom board members hold executive and/or director positions with Kinnevik and Tele2 AB, a pan-European telecommunications company offering fixed and mobile telephony. Tele2 AB is controlled by Kinnevik and certain of its affiliates. Furthermore, our Chairman used to be Chief Executive Officer of Kinnevik though he has not held an executive position with Kinnevik for over 10 years. These positions may create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that may have different implications for us, Kinnevik or Tele2 AB. There is a risk that these conflicts may ultimately be resolved in a manner unfavorable to Millicom. While it is the current understanding and has been the practice to date that we have the initial right to consider any telecommunications opportunity that arises in the emerging non-European markets that we target, there is no contractual arrangement that grants us exclusivity to this effect among us, Kinnevik and Tele2 AB. U.S. investors will be subject to special tax rules if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company. Special U.S. tax rules apply to U.S. taxpayers who own stock in a "Passive Foreign Investment Company," or "PFIC". We may be or may become a PFIC. Our status under the PFIC rules for each year depends upon our income and assets from time to time during that year. If we make substantial investments in associated companies' securities and other "passive assets", this may create a risk that we are a PFIC or may become a PFIC in the future. If we are determined to be a PFIC, then shareholders who are U.S. persons under U.S. tax laws will be subject to specific unfavorable tax rules. 17 The ability of investors to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws may be limited. We are incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (European Union). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Most or a substantial portion of our assets and those of most of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in our securities to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or upon us or to enforce in U.S. courts or outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Allen & Overy, that the United States and Luxembourg do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon United States federal securities laws, is not enforceable in Luxembourg. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in Luxembourg, the party may submit the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States to a Luxembourg court for the purpose of recognition by such court and enforcement in Luxembourg. A judgment by a federal or state court of the United States against us will be regarded by a Luxembourg court only as evidence of the outcome of the dispute to which such judgment relates, and a Luxembourg court may choose to rehear the dispute. 