ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors about us. These may not be the only risks we face. Additionally, we may face risks that we do not deem to be material at the time but which may become material in the future. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See Item 7 - Managements’ Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - “Forward-Looking Statements”. An increase in raw material costs may have an adverse effect on us. Because the cost of chemicals is the largest single component of our cost of goods sold, the price and availability of the chemicals we purchase significantly affects our business. In 2006, our cost of raw materials increased 35%, on average, over 2005. Cost of raw materials remained relatively stable throughout 2007. The principal chemicals used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam are TDI and polyol. The prices of these raw materials are influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and oil and natural gas prices. Specifically, since the primary chemicals used to create these raw materials are all oil-based derivatives, fluctuating oil and energy costs, like those experienced in the last few years, could adversely affect our manufacturing costs. We may not be able to fully offset raw material price increases through selling price increases and manufacturing process efficiencies. To the extent we are unable to so offset any raw material price increases; our business may be adversely affected. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 30, 2007, we had approximately $288.7 million of United States net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) which may be available to offset our future taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC Section 382”), however, limits a corporation’s utilization of NOLs following an IRC Section 382 ownership change. We had an IRC Section 382 ownership change in June 2001 that limited our future NOL utilization to approximately $21.0 million per year for $57.0 million of our NOLs subject to such limitation. Also, we have 8 determined that we had an ownership change as defined in IRC Section 382 on the Effective Date. Although the amount of the limitation has not been finally determined, we do not expect this new annual limitation on the use of our NOL carryforwards to have a significant near term impact on our cash flows or financial position. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of TDI and polyol. A disruption in our ability to obtain these raw materials that continues for a significant period of time could cause us to suspend all or a portion of our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and operations. Two examples of such disruptions were Hurricanes Rita and Katrina in 2005. Major customers' financial condition and supply decisions may have a material effect on us. Our financial performance is directly tied to the financial condition of our customers and our customers’ decisions concerning suppliers. This is especially so because a small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales. Net sales to our five largest customers together accounted for approximately 40.4% of our net sales in 2007. Net sales to Johnson Controls, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 18.5% of our net sales in 2007. Thus, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the amount purchased by, these major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The polyurethane foam business has excess capacity and is somewhat cyclical. We are subject to excess capacity in the polyurethane foam industry and to the cyclical nature of the automotive, housing, technology, and furniture and bedding industries. A protracted downturn in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, the problems facing the North American automotive industry, which was our largest revenue source in 2007, have negatively impacted our automotive business, and may negatively impact our financial condition in the future. Certain disputed unliquidated or contingent claims against us, including claims in certain legal proceedings, remain outstanding. A number of disputed unliquidated or contingent claims were filed against us in our bankruptcy proceedings. To the extent we are required to satisfy any of these claims in the future, we intend to do so through insurance, where available. However, we cannot assure you that we will have the necessary insurance or that any insurance we may have will be sufficient for this purpose. Among these disputed claims are certain disputes to which Foamex L.P. is a party relating to a fire at a nightclub in West Warwick, Rhode Island in February 2003. The fire destroyed the nightclub, killing 100 persons and injuring over 100 others. Foamex L.P. and several of its affiliates are named as defendants, along with more than 50 other defendants, in certain litigation concerning the fire. The ensuing litigation, comprising numerous cases, has been consolidated in a single case, Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 04-312L (the “Litigation”), before the United States District Court for the District of Rhode Island. Plaintiffs have also filed proofs of claim in our bankruptcy case. Foamex L.P. is named in these cases solely as an alleged successor to General Foam Corporation (“GFC”), a defendant in the Litigation. In addition to other foam manufacturing defendants in the Litigation, GFC is alleged to have manufactured and sold polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island. The foam fabricator is alleged to have then sold the foam at issue to the nightclub. The foam was among other building materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were set off inside the nightclub. The Litigation is in its early stages. We believe that there are multiple defenses to both (i) the claims against GFC and (ii) the successor claim against Foamex L.P. We intend to continue vigorously defending Foamex L.P. in the Litigation. We also believe that, if GFC is held liable for monetary damages in the Litigation, GFC is unable to satisfy that obligation and Foamex L.P. is found to have liability as a successor to GFC, there is likely to be adequate insurance available to Foamex L.P. to cover such liability. However, we cannot assure you that the defenses available to GFC or Foamex L.P. as an alleged successor will prevail. In addition, if GFC is held liable for monetary damages in the Litigation, there can be no assurance that GFC, or PMC under the guarantee, will be able to satisfy that obligation or any potential obligation to Foamex L.P. 9 We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our real properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances, the discharge or emission of materials into the environment and the remediation of environmental contamination. We are remediating soil and groundwater contamination at six of our current and former locations. We are also designated as a Potentially Responsible Party (“PRP”) by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), or by state environmental agencies, at three sites. If there are additional sites or our estimates of our potential environmental liabilities are incorrect, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of our debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. The credit agreements governing Foamex L.P.’s senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Foamex L.P.’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and unanticipated events could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any existing or future financing agreements, including the financial covenants in Foamex L.P.’s new senior secured credit facilities, could result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a default could allow the lenders under these financing agreements to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and/or to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If any of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of obligations that become due as a result of any such acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that would be acceptable to us. We cannot assure you that Foamex L.P. will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which Foamex L.P. is subject in the future and, if Foamex L.P. fails to do so, that Foamex L.P. will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders or amend the covenants. General business and economic conditions could reduce our sales and profitability. Our business can be affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States, including the current crisis in the credit markets. We could be exposed to downturns in the United States economy which could have a significant impact on demand for our products. In addition in a poor economic environment there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their obligations to us or go bankrupt, which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which would adversely affect our earnings. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy. If we fail to retain key management and technical personnel we may be unable to implement our business plan. Members of our management have extensive industry experience, and it would be difficult to find new personnel with comparable experience. Because our business is highly specialized, we believe that it would also be difficult to replace our key technical personnel. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, on our experienced management team and key technical personnel. Losing the services of key members of our management and technical teams could limit our ability to implement our business plan. 10 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 