Risk Factors that May Impact the Business Although the Company has remained consistently profitable on an annual basis since it fiscal year ended June 30, 1999, there can be no assurance that the Company will sustain profitability either on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. The Company's future revenues and operating costs may fluctuate significantly due to any one factor or a combination of factors, many of which are outside management's control. Management has identified the most important risk factors that may affect operating results in the future as follows: Seasonality: The Company's sales are highly seasonal, with Valentine's Day, Mother's Day and Christmas being its largest selling seasons, representing 28.3 percent, 21.0 percent, and 16.0 percent of the Company's annual sales, respectively. With the addition the PajamaGram, TastyGram and Calyx & Corolla business segments each with a larger percentage of female customers than the BearGram service, the Company has been able in increase proportionately its sales at Christmas and Mother's Day. While the Valentine's Day selling season continues to expand, it now represents a smaller percentage of total annual sales than in years past. Percentage of Gift Delivery Services orders (12 months ended June 30) Occasions for Purchases 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Valentine's Day 28.3% 25.5% 27.9% 27.7% 29.2% Mother's Day 21.0% 18.9% 17.0% 15.8% 14.4% Christmas 16.0% 14.4% 11.1% 8.5% 8.2% For purposes of developing the above table, the Company considers the Valentine's Day selling season to include the period from February 1 to February 14 each year. The Company considers the Mother's Day season to be the two-week period ending the Saturday before Mother's Day and the Christmas season to be the period from December 1 through December 25. However, as the Company seeks to expand in the gift business its sales are likely to remain seasonal. Therefore, if the Company were to experience a natural disaster, a major system failure, or any material business disruption in the weeks leading up to any of these holidays, the Company may experience a material shortfall in revenue. Given the significant advertising expenditures committed by the Company for these holidays a material shortfall in revenue for the holiday period would have a material adverse affect on the operating results of the business for the related quarter and for the year. The Company hires a large number of seasonal employees and contracts for significant additional support from telecommunication and technology vendors during the holiday periods. A material shortfall in seasonal revenue may not allow the Company to offset the increased costs associated with this activity during the holiday periods. In addition, a material shortfall in sales at a major holiday may re sult in excess inventory reducing the Company's available cash flow from operations. Retail Economy: The Company's brand name gift products are relatively expensive as compared to similar products offered by competitors in the marketplace. In the event of deterioration in general economic conditions, consumers with lower disposable incomes may spend less and avoid buying the Company's products. Lower net revenues may result without a corresponding decrease in the Company's operating costs and operating results may suffer. Effectiveness of Advertising Campaigns: The Company invests material amounts in certain advertising, including radio, television and catalog. The costs of producing television commercials and catalogs are substantial. If one or more of the related promotional campaigns were to be ineffective, the Company may experience a shortfall in anticipated revenue negatively impacting operating results. While the production costs for radio advertising are nominal, the Company does invest material amounts in airtime for certain radio personalities. If one or more of these personalities were to become unavailable or perform poorly, particularly at a major holiday, the Company's operating results may suffer. Competition: Competition in the gift market is very intense. Many of its competitors sell similar products at lower price points and have greater financial, and selling and marketing resources than the Company. The Company believes that its brand strength, its customer relationships and its last minute personalization and fulfillment capabilities position it to compete effectively with its current and future competitors in each of the gift service categories. Barriers to entry into the Company's markets are low, however, and increased competition based on price or other considerations could result in decreased revenues, increased marketing and selling expenditures and lower profit margins. These and other competitive factors may adversely impact the Company's business and results of operations. Inventory: Inventory management is critical to the Company's success due to the highly seasonal nature of the Company's sales. The Company has in the past achieved appropriate levels of inventory in relation to its sales as it has adjusted to varying growth rates. However, if the Company failed to maintain sufficient inventory to support seasonal sales, revenues could be reduced which may adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Conversely, if the Company accumulates inventory and sales do not materialize, the available cash resources of the Company may be reduced which may adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Dependence on Technology: The Company believes it has developed redundant systems and contingency plans to mitigate the risk of service interruption by its service providers or the possible malfunction of its operating systems at the holidays. There can be no assurance, however, that services, including but not limited to long distance call service, call center services, website hosting services, common carrier services or electrical services, will not be interrupted. It is also possible that one or more of the Company's operating systems could malfunction limiting the Company's ability to process orders. If one or more of the Company's outside operating services were interrupted or one or more of the Company's operating systems malfunctioned during a peak holiday selling season, the loss of orders and revenue may adversely affect the Company's business, its brand and the results of operations. Offshore Sources of Product: The Company has become increasingly dependent on products th at are manufactured exclusively for the Company by overseas contractors, primarily teddy bear outfits and pajamas and related sleepwear. Most of the contractors manufacture the Company's goods in China. While the Company has experienced good quality and reliable delivery from its sources, there can be no assurance that supply won't be interrupted in the future. There is also the possibility of delayed deliveries resulting from any number of factors including manufacturing delays as China is currently subject to power shortages and outages, or transportation delays related to traffic or strikes. If the Company were to experience delay for a material quantity of imported manufactured goods operating results on a quarterly and annual basis may suffer. Many of the flowers included in the Company's floral arrangements are grown on farms located in foreign countries, predominantly Ecuador, Columbia and Holland. As a result the availability and price of the flowers purchased by the Company could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors that in turn would have a negative affect on the Company's results of operations for its Calyx & Corolla business segment. The flowers received into the import warehouses of the growers in Florida and California are subject to agricultural inspection by agencies of the U.S. government to manage pests and disease. Some of the countries in which the flowers are grown are subject to work stoppages and political instability. Trade restrictions, economic uncertainties, weather conditions and foreign government regulations are also potential risk factors. Any one or a combination of these risk factors could impact the availability and price of flowers and adversely affect the Company's operating result s for Calyx. Perishable Products: Products sold in the Calyx and TastyGram segments are perishable and subject to damage or deterioration in shipment. If a significant number of customers are disappointed with their orders the Company may incur substantial costs to issue refunds adversely impacting the Company's operating results and potentially damaging the Company's brands. Additionally, the supply of flowers can become limited on short notice due to severe weather conditions or delays in agricultural inspection. If adequate substitutions are not available, the Company may not be able to fulfill orders. Resulting loss of sales and customer disappointment may again impact negatively the Company's operating results and its brands. Product Liability: While the Company has developed product testing and quality control procedures and believes it complies with all product safety and agricultural regulations, it is exposed to product liability claims. Although the Company has not experienced material losses due to product liability claims and carries product liability insurance coverage, it may become a party to such claims in the future that may result in significant costs of litigation or settlement. To the extent the Company's insurance does not cover these costs, the Company's operating results may suffer. Publicity associated with these claims may also have a negative impact on its brands. Dependence on Third Party Fulfillment: The Company depends on third parties to prepare gift orders for shipment in both the Calyx and TastyGram segments. While the Company carefully pre-qualifies its drop-ship suppliers and maintains constant communication and good relations with each, suppliers on occasion fail to meet the specifications and requirements of the Company's orders. If a larger supplier were to discontinue its arrangement with the Company on short notice, or fail to provide contracted quantities of floral products, or fail to satisfactorily prepare and ship the Company's orders, customer's may be dissatisfied with their experience with the Company and decline to purchase from the Company in the future. Dependence on Common Carriers: While the Company has the ability to ship its gift products using multiple common carriers thereby reducing its reliance on any one carrier, there are a number of factors affecting both the reliability of delivery and cost of the Company's shipments. At the holidays, packages leave the Company's facility in Shelburne, Vermont and the growers' warehouses in Florida and California in bulk shipments and are transported to the carriers' distribution hubs either by tractor-trailer or by plane for more general dispersion within the carriers' delivery systems. A catastrophic disruption in transit, particularly on the initial leg from the point of origin could cause a material number of deliveries to be delayed and result in a material adverse impact on the Company's operating results for the holiday and could also have a negative affect on its brands. The addition of ancillary charges by all carriers for residential deliveries, rural residential deliveries an d fuel cost increase have materially impacted the Company's cost for freight paid on deliveries. In addition, Federal Express now applies a dimensional weight to packages under 12 inches cubed that represent the majority of the Company's packages. The resulting cost increases caused the Company to replace Federal Express with UPS as its primary carrier. If the other carriers apply dimensional weights for packages under 12 inches cubed without a corresponding adjustment to the Company's discounts, the Company may experience material increases in its cost for overnight and two-day express deliveries of its gift products. If the Company is unable to pass the added cost on to its customers, the Company's operating results may suffer. Government Regulation: It is possible that new laws or regulations imposed by the Federal Trade Commission and other government agencies may adversely impact the Company's business, in particular its Internet business. These laws may increase the Company's potential liability related to user privacy or the collection and use of information gathered online, the content of the Company's websites, taxation, infringement of intellectual property. If states impose broader guidelines to collecting state sales and use taxes, or if recent Supreme Court decisions restricting the imposition of sales taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet are reversed, the Company could be subject to a decrease in sales and a significant additional administrative burden increasing its cost of doing business. A successful assertion by one or more states that the Company should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with other retailers and otherwise harm our business. Sarbanes-Oxley: The Company has adopted the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Sections 401 and 402 without significantly changing its business practices or incurring material additional cost. However, the Company believes that it will be more difficult and costly to meet the requirements of Section 404 that are scheduled to be in effect for the Company beginning in its fiscal year 2007 commencing on July 1, 2006. While the Company believes that its internal control processes are both designed and operating effectively, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attest to the design or effectiveness of these controls pursuant to the stringent new standards of Section 404 in the future. In addition, the Company believes it will incur substantial additional costs both internal and in the form of higher fees paid to its external auditors and other financial advisors that may adversely impact its operating results. Management Succession: The Company has developed its current management structure by developing its executive team and senior leadership internally. While the resulting aggregate management experience has allowed the Company to perform well while experiencing rapid growth in recent years, the Company has no formal succession plan to replace its current Chief Executive Officer, Elisabeth Robert whose employment contract expires on October 22, 2007. The Company believes that Elisabeth Robert has played a significant role in the development of the Company and the unique business culture that propels its recent success. In the event Elisabeth Robert departs the Company, there can be no assurance the Company will find a replacement capable of providing effective leadership for the Company. Stock Price Volatility: The Company's stock price is subject to material fluctuation as the result of stock market conditions as well as investors' interpretation of the performance of the Company. The Company is aware that its stock is very thinly traded in the public market further subjecting its stock price to material fluctuations when stockholders attempt to transact the stock in larger quantities. Owning a large block of the Company's stock may preclude the related shareholder from selling his or her holding at the then stated market price for the stock. The average daily trading volume for BEAR during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 was 9,263 shares. On occasion, when an abrupt material decline occurs in a company's stock price, that company is subject to securities class action litigation. There can be no assurance that the Company will not become subject to this type of expensive and distracting litigation in the future. On May 16, 2005, The Vermont Teddy Bear Co., Inc. a New York corporation (the "Company") entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Hibernation Holding Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Hibernation Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Hibernation Holding Company, Inc. ("Merger Subsidiary"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Subsidiary will merge (the "Merger) with and into the Company, with the separate corporate existence of Merger Subsidiary ceasing and the Company continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hibernation Holding Company, Inc. At the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each share of Company common stock and preferred stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and not held by Hibernation Holding Company, Inc. will be converted into the right to receive $6.50 in cash per share of common stock (on an as-converted bas is). Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the Effective Time certain security holders will exchange their existing Company stock and warrants for stock and warrants of Hibernation Holding Company, Inc. The consummation of the Merger is subject to certain terms and conditions customary for transactions of this type, including stockholder approval and completion of committed debt and equity financing. A special meeting of the shareholders of The Vermont Teddy Bear Co., Inc. ("VTBC") was held at 10:00 a.m. EST on Wednesday, September 28, 2005, at VTBC's retail/manufacturing facility, 6655 Shelburne Road, Route 7, Shelburne, Vermont. At this meeting the stockholders approved the Merger Agreement and, the closing of the Merger Agreement is expected to occur on or before September 30, 2005. If the merger is completed, the Company will no longer be owned by public shareholders and, as a private company, will file a Form 15 to notify the SEC that its public reporting duties are terminated. While the Merger Agreement is expected to close on or before September 30, 2005, there can be no assurance that the Merger Agreement will close. The risks described above are not the only risks or uncertainties that may negatively impact the Company's business or its operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations, operating results or financial condition. 