RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations could be significantly affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the "Forward-Looking Statements" discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In 2010, our business continues to be impacted by the general worldwide economic downturn and its effects will continue to impact on our results in 2011. In addition, further deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on the level of demand by our individual customers for our products and services. This could also impact our growth in mobile telecommunications, and/or broadband products and services. General inflation could affect our business as we are not certain of consumers' acceptance of potential price increases for our products. Food price inflation more specifically may affect low income customers and may lead to a redistribution of income within the countries where we operate. Risks Relating to our Business Emerging Markets Risks Many of the countries in which we operate in have a history of political instability and any current or future instability may negatively affect our revenues or ability to conduct our business locally. We offer mobile telephony and cable services in 14 emerging markets in Central and South America, Africa and Asia. Many of the countries in which we operate are considered to be emerging economies and, therefore, can be subject to greater political and economic risk than developed countries. The governments of these 14 countries differ widely with respect to type of government, constitution, and stability. Many of these 14 countries lack mature legal and regulatory systems. Some of the countries in which we operate suffer from political instability, civil unrest, or war-like actions by anti-government insurgent groups. These problems may continue or worsen, potentially resulting in civil war in these countries. Honduras was largely cut off from foreign aid as a result of the political events of June 2009. As a result of the above, we face several risks, ranging from risk of network disruption, to the risk that we may have to evacuate some or all of our key staff from certain countries, in which case there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to conduct our local business as previously. Any of these events would adversely affect our revenues or results of operations. Most of the countries in which we operate have weak legal and telecommunications regulatory regimes compared to those in developed countries and this creates risks for our operations. In order for our operations to provide mobile services, they must receive a license from the government of the country in which they operate. Our ability to operate is therefore dependent on the licenses granted by the government of each country. These licenses generally allow our companies to operate for a number of years, after which they are subject to renewal. To the extent that our operations depend on governmental approval and regulatory decisions, our local business may be adversely affected by changes in the political structure or by actions or decisions of specific government representatives in the relevant market. It is possible that a government could decide arbitrarily to 5 Table of Contents revoke a license or impose new conditions that we do not agree with and may not get consulted about in advance. For example, we are currently in litigation with the government of Senegal, which challenged the validity of our license when we refused to pay additional amounts for a license that we validly hold and that does not expire until 2018. We may not always have access to efficient avenues for appeal and may have to accept arbitrary conditions imposed upon us. This could adversely affect our business and our revenues. Our only avenue of recourse may often be to the judicial system of the relevant country; however, the legal and court systems of many countries in which we operate tend to be poorly developed and can be subject to political influence and other inherent uncertainties. It can therefore be difficult to obtain a rapid, fair and unbiased resolution of disagreements with governmental authorities. Our ability to renew licenses and the costs of such renewals cannot be reliably predicted even if comparable renewals exist in other markets. Even where we have other options, such as claiming compensation in arbitration proceedings for violations of a bilateral investment treaty, the process can be lengthy and costly. For example, the arbitration we filed against the government of Senegal before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes in November 2008 has not yet resulted in a final decision and is expected to be reviewed on the merits by the arbitration panel beginning in November 2011. Even if the outcome is successful, the enforcement of any award favorable to us could be challenging. Some of the countries in which we operate have political regimes that do not view foreign business interests favorably and may attempt to expropriate all or part of our local assets or impose controls on our operations. This risk potentially exists in any of the countries in which we operate, but might be highest in Bolivia at the moment under the current government. The government of President Evo Morales in Bolivia has nationalized the telecommunications company Entel, which had been privatized under previous presidential regimes in Bolivia. Other such actions might take place in our sector in connection with the government's decision to regain more control over the Bolivian economy, as shown by certain measures implemented in the oil & gas sector in 2005 and 2006. We believe that nationalization of the telecommunications sector will probably not occur but that the Bolivian Government may rather attempt to impose measures to lower tariffs offered to customers and improve the offer and availability of mobile telephony and other telecommunications services in isolated rural areas, or increased taxes on private foreign owned businesses such as Telecel, our Bolivian operation, to increase government revenues. Measures like these may have the effect of increasing our network rollout costs and reducing the profitability of our Bolivian operation. Most of the countries in which we operate have underdeveloped economies with low gross domestic product ("GDP") per capita and therefore any increased inflationary pressures and downturns could significantly impact our revenues. Our operations are dependent on the health of the economies of the markets in which we operate. We offer our services in emerging market countries with economies at various stages of development or structural reform. Most of the economies of the countries in which we operate have large sectors where a percentage of the local population earns a living on a day-to-day basis and primarily spends its income on basic items such as food, housing and clothing, and has less income to spend on mobile telephony services. Therefore, downturns in the economies of any particular country or region in which we operate may adversely affect demand for our services, which would result in reduced revenues. Some of these countries have historically experienced high inflation rates, although in the recent years inflation rates in all countries where we operate have been relatively low, if we exclude Ghana, following the significant devaluation of the local currency. Periods of significant inflation in any of our markets could adversely affect our costs and financial condition as well as the purchasing power for telecommunications services at the lower end of the customer pyramid. The recent spike in food 6 Table of Contents prices in many countries around the world may impact the purchasing power of a large number of our customers, especially at the lower end of our customer base. Most of the countries where we operate lack infrastructure or have infrastructure in very poor condition and, particularly in Africa, have an insufficient electricity supply. With the exception of Mauritius and Colombia, the countries in which we operate often lack basic infrastructure or have infrastructure in poor or very poor condition, including in particular roads and power networks. The lack of suitable infrastructure is particularly acute in countries recovering from civil wars, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and in countries suffering from civil war-like events, such as Chad. In general, the rural areas in each of our operations often lack even the most basic infrastructure, as any development tends to be concentrated in urban areas. Millicom must often build its cell sites without the benefit of roads and other infrastructures, which increases our network development costs. The electricity supply is insufficient in certain countries in which we operate (predominantly in Africa, with the exception of Mauritius) due to underdevelopment of electricity sectors compared to growth experienced in such countries. We therefore have to rely on diesel powered generators that we source, install, maintain and refuel. In Chad, at December 31, 2010, almost 100% of our radio sites were powered by diesel powered generators, and in the Democratic Republic of Congo it was the case for about 75% of our sites. This increases our costs and impacts the profitability of our African operations. We have been subject to increasing foreign taxes or reducing tariffs in the countries in which we operate, which reduces amounts we receive from our operations and may increase our tax costs or cut interconnection revenue. Many of the foreign countries in which we operate have imposed new taxes or increased the rates of existing taxes applicable to corporations, or reduced tariffs (interconnect rates) in order to raise government revenue. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressure or provisions of new tax laws may prevent us from passing these taxes onto our local customers. Consequently, any increase in taxes applicable to our local operating subsidiaries could reduce the amount of earnings they generate or reduce the consumption of our services in our countries. Recent examples include, taxes on incoming international calls in El Salvador and Honduras, sales tax increases in Honduras, fixed interconnect rates in Paraguay and frequency and numbering taxes in the DRC. We could be subject to the impact of a deteriorating economic environment within the developed countries. Many people in the countries in which we operate receive significant inflows of funds from relatives and friends who work abroad in developed countries. A significant deterioration in the developed country economies could impact the ability of those abroad to continue remitting funds because of job losses or reduced wages. Lower remittances would reduce the disposable income which would impact our revenues as happened in 2009 where remittances of funds from migrant workers in the United States of America to Central America decreased by 13%. The deterioration in developed economies could also put pressure on the amount of foreign aid the developed countries provide to developing countries in which we operate and could increase the local governments' need to generate revenue through taxation or reduce the ability of consumers to buy our products and services. Currency fluctuations or devaluations may reduce the amount of profit and the value of assets that we are able to report. Exchange rates for currencies of the countries in which our companies operate fluctuate in relation to the US$ and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, assets or cash 7 Table of Contents flows when translating local currency into US$. For each operation that reports its results in a currency other than the US$, a decrease in the value of that currency against the US$ reduces our profits while also reducing our assets, our liabilities and our future dividends. To the extent that our operations retain earnings or distribute dividends in local currencies, the amount of US$ we receive is affected by fluctuations of exchange rates for such currencies against the US$, which could affect our results of operations. In addition, exchange rates are impacting Millicom's earnings, assets and cash flows as our operating subsidiaries have US$ debt, because of lack of available financing in local currencies. Generally, due to lack of available instruments in the countries where we operate, we are not able to hedge against foreign currency exposures, with the exception of Colombia. Millicom had a net exchange loss of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to a loss of $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Most of our operations receive revenue denominated in the local currency of the country of operation. In the future, any of the countries in which these operations are located may impose foreign exchange controls that could restrict our ability to receive funds from the operations. Most of the operations in which we have interests receive substantially all of their revenues in the currency of the countries in which they operate. We derive substantially all of our revenues through funds generated by our local operations and, therefore, we rely on their ability to transfer funds to the Company. Although there are foreign exchange controls in some of the countries in which our mobile telephone companies operate, none of these countries currently significantly restrict the ability of these operations to pay interest, dividends, technical service fees, royalties or repay loans by exporting cash, instruments of credit or securities in foreign currencies. However, existing foreign exchange controls may be strengthened in countries where we operate, or foreign exchange controls may be introduced in countries where we operate that do not currently impose such restrictions, in which case, the Company's ability to receive funds from the operations will subsequently be restricted, which will impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, in some countries, it may be difficult to convert large amounts of local currency into foreign currency because of limited foreign exchange markets. The practical effects of this are time delays in accumulating significant amounts of foreign currency and exchange risk, which could have an adverse effect on the Group's results of operations. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exposure may be limited by restrictions on hedging instruments. At the operations level, we seek to reduce our foreign exchange exposure through a policy of matching, as far as possible, cash inflows and outflows. Where possible and where it is financially viable, we borrow in local currency to help hedge against local currency net inflows. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exchange exposure may be limited by the lack of long-term financing in local currency. As such, there is a risk that we may not be able to fund our local operation's capital expenditure needs or reduce our foreign exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency. We own our operations through holding companies in jurisdictions which may enact changes to their respective laws that may unfavorably impact our financial status or tax treatment. We hold the interests in our mobile telephone companies through our subsidiaries in various jurisdictions in and outside Luxembourg, mainly but not exclusively through holding companies incorporated in the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles. The laws or administrative practices relating to taxation (including the current position as to withholding taxes on dividends paid by our local operations and tax concessions we have obtained in certain of our countries of operation), foreign 8 Table of Contents exchange controls, or other matters, are periodically subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse impact on our financial affairs and on our ability to receive, or the tax treatment of, funds from our local operations. Our failure to comply with local and international laws and regulations could result in liabilities and sanctions and this could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to several laws and regulations with worldwide application, including as promulgated by: •the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), •the European Union (EU), through directives that are either directly applicable or that get translated into the law of the country of incorporation, •the federal laws of the United States of America, including the securities laws thereof and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997, and •the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, where the Company is incorporated. These laws and regulations affect where and how our business may be conducted. In addition, our shareholders, lenders, suppliers or other entities with which the Company and its operating subsidiaries conduct business may be subject to or seek to comply with these laws and regulations. Although the Company focuses on compliance activities, there is a risk that non-compliance issues may arise with respect to the Company or its operating subsidiaries or any employee thereof. Any instances of non-compliance may result in consequences ranging from negative publicity and reputational damage to criminal and civil liability and the application of fines or disgorgement of profits to the Company on account of any of its employees or directors or the employees or directors of any of its operating subsidiaries. Any of the foregoing would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Related to our Operations and the Mobile Telephony Market We face intense competition in the mobile telephone operator market. Our mobile telephony operations face competition from other mobile telephone operators in the markets in which they operate, as well as fixed line operators in some markets. Our main competitors are America Movil, MTN, Bharti, France Telecom, Vodafone, Telefonica and Digicel. We expect that additional mobile telephony licenses could be granted in some of our existing markets. Moreover, additional licenses may be awarded in markets where we already face competition from other technologies that are being or may be developed and/or perfected in the future. In some of our markets, there may be more mobile telephone operators than the market is able to sustain. In addition, in some of our markets, our competitors may have a greater coverage area than we do. The mobile telephone operators in each market compete for customers principally on the basis of services offered, quality of service, coverage area, accessibility of distribution and price. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources than we do. Price competition is significant and voice is increasingly becoming commoditized as there are fewer factors differentiating the services offered by the different operators in our markets. A risk also exists that, as new competitors enter into our markets and price competition intensifies, our customers may move to another mobile telephone operator especially as the majority of our customers are using a pre-paid model which means that they are free to move to the competitors at any time. This may result in a decline of our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Any failure by us to compete effectively or aggressive competitive behavior by our competitors in pricing their services or acquiring new customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and overall results of operations. The mobile telephony market is heavily regulated and taxed. The licensing, construction, ownership and operation of mobile telephone networks, and the grant, maintenance and renewal of mobile telephone licenses, as well as radio frequency allocations and interconnection arrangements, are regulated by national, state, regional or local governmental authorities in the markets that we service. In addition, such matters and certain other aspects of mobile telephone operations, including rates charged to customers and resale of mobile telephone services may be subject to public utility regulation in the relevant market. Our operations also typically require government permits, including permits for the construction and operation of cell sites. While we do not believe that compliance with these permit requirements has a material adverse effect on our Company, we may become subject to claims or regulatory actions relating to any past or future non-compliance with permit requirements, and any change in the regulation of our activities, such as increased or decreased regulation affecting prices or requirements for increased capital investments, may materially adversely affect us. In recent years budgetary pressure from many governments due to economic downtown has resulted in increased taxation. Most of the countries in which we operate do not have universal service obligations and if such obligations were implemented the profitability of our operations may be negatively impacted. The purpose of universal service is to provide access to persons in non-urban areas and isolated areas with telephone and other telecommunications services by the telecommunications build-out in rural areas through subsidies. There is a telecommunications divide in all of the countries in which we operate in relation to access to telecommunications services (mobile, internet access, and higher bandwidth telecommunication services) between urban and rural areas. When such services are available, they usually come at a significantly higher cost to the customer than in urban areas due to lower population density in rural areas that are often hard to reach due to lack of basic infrastructure, in particular roads and electricity. The goal of universal service is to promote the availability of quality services at fair, reasonable and affordable rates in all areas of a country, to increase access to advanced telecommunications services, and to enhance the availability of such services to all consumers, including those in isolated rural areas, at rates that are reasonably comparable to those charged in urban areas. For instance, India has implemented a universal service obligation in its New Telecom Policy 1999 funded by telecommunications operators paying part of their net earnings into the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). We therefore believe that universal service obligations are a trend in telecommunications that may eventually become law in the countries in which we operate. To date, none of the emerging markets in which we operate have universal service obligations. We expect that some of the countries in which we operate may do so in the future. We believe this will have a negative impact on our profitability. We face substantial competition for obtaining, funding and renewing mobile telephone licenses. We may pursue new license opportunities. In each market we face competition for licenses from major international telecommunications companies as well as from local or regional competitors. While we typically try not to pay large amounts for mobile licenses, the competition for the granting or renewal of licenses is increasingly intense worldwide. As such, we might have to pay substantial license fees in certain markets, as well as meet specified network build out requirements. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing any mobile telephone licenses or, if licenses are awarded, in obtaining those licenses on terms acceptable to us. If we obtain further licenses or renew existing ones, 10 Table of Contents we may need to seek future funding through additional borrowings or equity offerings, and we may not obtain such funding on satisfactory terms or at all. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change, which could render our products obsolete and cause us to incur substantial costs to replace our products. Fixed network and other system equipment used in the mobile telephone industry have a limited life and must be replaced frequently due to damage or as a result of ordinary wear and tear. In addition, substantial expansion of existing networks may be required to remain competitive. Our networks are based on the GSM standard. In our Latin American markets, Mauritius, Rwanda and in the near future Ghana and Tanzania, we have or will have both GSM and 3G networks. The GSM standard has been most appropriate for our markets because it has the greatest availability of handsets with strong functionality and has relatively low repair and maintenance costs. As new technologies are being developed besides GSM and 3G, such as fourth generation systems, including WiMAX and LTE (Long Term Evolution), equipment may need to be replaced or upgraded or a mobile telephone network may need to be rebuilt in whole or in part, at substantial cost, to remain competitive. Unforeseeable technological developments may also render our services unpopular with customers or obsolete. If our equipment or systems become obsolete, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge to such assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. LTE or 4G is currently under implementation in some countries. Its benefits are still unknown and we may have to invest a significant amount of money to follow competition and to secure our competitiveness with this technology. The mobile telephony sector may be forced to open up access to its spectrum which may create further competition. In line with current trends in the U.S. and European Union, where spectrum regulation may intend to change in such a way that spectrum formerly reserved exclusively for GSM operators could be opened to other uses, such as 3G or LTE, and/or new spectrum is freed such as the 700 or 2,000 Mhz band, we could find that new competitors are given access to our markets. Although we do not believe such changes will occur in our markets in near future, we believe these developments are likely to influence telecom regulatory trends in other parts of the world. If such trends become law in our markets, our competitive position in the relevant countries may be adversely affected. If we cannot successfully develop and operate our networks and distribution we will be unable to expand our customer base and will lose market share and revenues. Our ability to increase our customer base depends upon the success of the expansion and management of our networks and distribution. The build-out of our networks and distribution is subject to risks and uncertainties which may delay the introduction of service and increase the cost of network construction. Such uncertainties may include natural disasters, the risk of hurricanes, volcanic activity and earthquakes in Central America, and flooding in low-lying areas in Bolivia and Paraguay (as occurred in the first quarter of 2007). Other risks include sabotage and theft, which is an ongoing risk particularly in DRC. To the extent we fail to expand our network and distribution capabilities on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in expanding our customer base. In addition, our ability to operate our operations successfully is dependent upon our ability to deploy and operate sufficient operational resources and networks. The failure or breakdown of key components of our networks, including hardware and software, may have a material negative effect on our profits and results of operations. Furthermore, we depend upon a small number of major suppliers for essential hardware, software and services, mainly network infrastructure and mobile devices. These suppliers may, among other 11 Table of Contents things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. Transferring the ownership and control of our passive infrastructure could adversely impact the availability and quality of service we can offer to our customers. We have entered into three transactions in 2010 whereby we have sold and leased back a significant amount of our passive infrastructure in Africa. Through these transactions Millicom is losing ownership and control of the passive infrastructure which could potentially impact the quality of service we offer to our customers if the service provider cannot meet its contractual obligations. Rapid growth and expansion may cause us difficulty in obtaining adequate managerial and operational resources and restrict our ability to expand successfully our operations. Our future operating results depend, in a significant part, upon the continued contributions of key senior management and technical personnel. Management of growth will require, among other things: •stringent control of network build-out and other costs; •excellence in sales, marketing and distribution; •continued innovative product development; •continued development of financial and management controls and information technology systems; •implementation and operation of adequate and effective internal controls; •hiring and training of new personnel; and •coordination among our logistical, technical, accounting, legal and finance personnel. Our success will also depend on our ability to continue to attract, retain, develop and motivate qualified personnel. Competition for personnel in our markets is intense due to scarcity of qualified individuals. Our failure to successfully manage our growth and personnel needs would have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. In many cases in Africa, we have to use expatriate personnel at a higher cost due to the lack of technical expertise in the local markets. We are developing local expertise in-house but it may take time to have them fully operational. Our future growth will depend upon our ability to innovate and develop new products. We expect that a large part of our future growth in the coming years will come from new products and innovation. If we are unable to find attractive new products for our customers this could adversely impact our future growth as well as the sustainability of our existing business as customers could switch to other operators if they offer better new services than we do. Furthermore, some of these new products, such as banking services, are complex, involve new distribution channels, and/or new regulatory and compliance requirements. In addition some of these new products may involve cash handling exposing us to additional risk of fraud and money laundering. For many of our new products, customers need a 3G handset to access them. The current cost of 3G handsets is high and we will need, at least initially to subsidise the cost of the handsets to our customers. These handset subsidies may put pressure on our profitability and may threaten our business model based on affordability as a whole. 12 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent upon interconnection agreements and transmission and leased lines. Our operations are dependent upon access to networks not controlled by us, primarily networks controlled by current or former government owned public telecommunications operators or competing mobile telephone operators. Our financial results are affected by the cost of transmission and leased lines to secure interconnection. We may not be able to maintain interconnection or leased line agreements on appropriate terms to maintain or grow our business. A number of regulators have, or are expected to, reduce interconnection rates. As we are often one of the largest suppliers of telephone services in the countries in which we operate, this could reduce our revenue. For example, in December 2007, the Colombian regulator significantly reduced the interconnect rate, and in April 2010 the El Salvadorian regulator reduced mobile terminated call interconnect rates by 70%. As our customer base receives significantly more calls from other networks than it makes, the change in the interconnect rate has had a significant impact on the revenues and profitability of this operation. Current concerns about actual or perceived health risks relating to electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions, as well as extensive publicity or possible subsequent litigation, may have a negative effect on the market price of our shares, our financial position or the results of our operations. Media and other reports have suggested that electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions from mobile telephone handsets and base stations may cause health problems, including cancer. There is also some concern that these emissions may interfere with the operation of certain electronic equipment, including aircraft guidance systems, automobile braking and steering systems (e.g. GPS), and civil and military radars. Although we expect that the actual or perceived risks relating to mobile communications devices and base stations, or press reports about these risks will not significantly adversely affect us, its actual impact is difficult to estimate. It may have the effect of reducing our customer growth rate, customer base or average use per customer, which could have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. If a link between electromagnetic or radio frequency emissions and adverse health concerns is demonstrated, government authorities are likely to increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations. Mobile telephone operators, including us, and handset manufacturers may be held liable for all or part of the costs or damages associated with these concerns. Any such regulations, or any litigation brought by potential victims, could also have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. General Risks Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash is dependent on our future operating and financial performance. This will be impacted by our ability to implement successfully our business strategy, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash, we may, among other things, need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing, delay capital expenditure or sell assets. We may have difficulty to access financial markets as we do not have investment grade rated credit. In addition, as a consequence of the financial crisis banks are refocusing on domestic markets and we are operating in Luxembourg with few national banks. This could impact the operating performance of our business. High levels of penetration for mobile phone services in some of our markets could have an impact on our future growth. Most of the Latin American markets where we operate now have mobile phone penetration levels close to 100% with the exception of Bolivia and to a lesser extent Guatemala. Although there are still opportunities for further growth, the high penetration rates in Latin America could lead to a slowdown 13 Table of Contents in growth in those markets. Likewise, urban areas in the markets where we operate in Africa have a high penetration rate for mobile phones and opportunities for increasing the penetration rates in our African markets are largely in rural areas where Average Revenues Per User's (ARPU's) are lower and costs are higher, which could threaten our future profitability. Our debt may have an adverse effect on our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such debt. As of December 31, 2010, Millicom's total consolidated indebtedness was $2.3 billion. All of the consolidated indebtedness was our share of the indebtedness of our subsidiaries and joint ventures. Corporate guarantees issued by the Company secured $0.8 billion of the indebtedness of our operations at December 31, 2010. The Group's share of total debt and financing secured by either pledged assets, pledged deposits issued to cover letters of credit or guarantees issued by the Company was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010. If we substantially increase our level of indebtedness, it may have significant negative consequences for us. For example, it may: •require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to fund payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditure and other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions or the loss of significant operations; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry or markets in which we operate; •limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future or increase the cost of such funding; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; •reduce our ability to pay dividends and prevent us from meeting our commitments in respect of our dividend policy; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who might have less debt. Our ability to receive funds from and to exercise management control over our operations can be dependent upon the consent of our partners who are not under our control. Disagreements or unfavorable terms in the agreements governing our joint ventures may adversely affect our operations. We participate in the following operations where we have local partners with sufficient minority rights to prevent us from having full control: Guatemala and Mauritius. Our participation in each operation differs from market to market. Often our ability to withdraw funds, including dividends, from these operations and to exercise management control over our partners depends on receiving the consent of the other participants. While the precise terms of the arrangements vary, our operations may be negatively affected if disagreements develop with our partners. We rely upon dividends and other payments from our operations to generate funds required to meet the Company's obligations. The local operations are legally separate and distinct from the Company and have no obligation to pay amounts due with respect to the Company's obligations or to make funds available for such payments. Our local operations do not guarantee the Company's 14 Table of Contents obligations. The ability of our operations to make such payments to the Company is subject to, among other things, the availability of funds, the agreement of our partners, the terms of each operation's indebtedness and local law. The majority of our local operations have entered into financing facilities, which may be guaranteed by the Company, many of which restrict the payment of dividends by those operations to the Company. Claims of creditors of our operations, including trade creditors, will generally have priority over our claims and the holders of our indebtedness. Certain insiders own significant amounts of our shares, giving them a substantial amount of management control. At December 31, 2010, Investment AB Kinnevik, our largest shareholder, owned 37,835,438 shares in Millicom, representing approximately 35% of voting shares on that date. Kinnevik and its affiliates, having a significant ownership in Millicom, could have significant influence over our management and affairs. The influence that they have may potentially conflict with the Company's interests. Some of our directors hold positions with Investment AB Kinnevik ("Kinnevik"), which may present conflicts that may be resolved in a manner not consistent with your interests. Two Millicom board members hold executive and/or director positions with Kinnevik. Such position may create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when decisions have to be made by the Board of Directors that may have different implications for the Company or Kinnevik. There is a risk that these conflicts may ultimately be resolved in a manner not consistent with your interests. The ability of investors to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws may be limited. We are incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (European Union). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Most or a substantial portion of our assets and those of most of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in our securities to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or upon us or to enforce in U.S. courts or outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Allen & Overy that the United States and Luxembourg do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon United States federal securities laws, is not enforceable in Luxembourg. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in Luxembourg, the party may submit the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States to a Luxembourg court for the purpose of recognition by such court and enforcement in Luxembourg. A judgment by a federal or state court of the United States against us will be regarded by a Luxembourg court only as evidence of the outcome of the dispute to which such judgment relates, and a Luxembourg court may choose to rehear the dispute. 15 Table of Contents 