Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- As is the case with all investments in stock, an investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also exist and could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of a Memorandum of Understanding with, and other commitments we have made to, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Failure to comply with the Memorandum of Understanding could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. As discussed above under "Corporate Developments and Overview," we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Office of Thrift Supervision on December 1, 2006, which requires us to, among other things, take certain actions with respect to deficiencies in lending policies and procedures and recent operating losses, and to revise both our three-year business plan and budget to enhance profitability. While we believe we are currently in compliance with the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, if we fail to comply with these terms, the Office of Thrift Supervision could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties or the issuance of a cease and desist order requiring further corrective action. We have incurred significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Memorandum of Understanding, and although we do not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the Memorandum of Understanding and our other commitments could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. As required by the Memorandum of Understanding, we developed a revised three-year business plan and budget which was submitted to the Office of Thrift Supervision prior to October 31, 2007. The business plan was approved by the Office of Thrift Supervision without modification. We have been submitting monthly reports to the Office of Thrift Supervision on the budget versus actual results beginning with October 2007. The Office of Thrift Supervision must approve any material deviation from our approved business plan, which could further limit our ability to make changes to our business activities. We have had losses and low earnings in recent years. Our net income has decreased in recent years. Net income was $363,000, $272,000, $1.3 million, $2.3 million and $2.2 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We had a net loss of $173,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Our return on average assets was 0.15%, 0.09%, 0.51%, 0.87% and 0.85 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and our return on average equity was 1.34%, 0.77%, 4.60%, 8.49% and 8.68% for the same years. Our returns on average assets and average equity were negative for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, as we incurred a net loss for that year. We face significant challenges that will hinder our ability to improve our earnings significantly. These challenges include the fact that we currently operate 40 under a Memorandum of Understanding with the Office of Thrift Supervision (discussed above) and have a significant amount of problem loans (discussed below), and we have a low interest rate spread. Our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on our interest- earning assets and the average rate paid on our interest rate spread, declined from 3.31% for the year ended June 30, 2005 to 2.96% for the year ended June 30, 2006 to 2.71% for the year ended June 30, 2007. For the year ended June 30, 2008, our interest rate spread did improve to 3.01% While we have identified various strategic initiatives we will pursue in our efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings, our strategic initiatives might not succeed in increasing our net income. We have had a significant amount of problem loans and losses related to these loans. Since 1999, we have focused our efforts on increasing our commercial business loan and commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, as a result, we recognized substantial write-offs in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2006 and 2005. Our ratio of non-performing assets to total assets increased from 0.59% at June 30, 2006 to 1.47% at June 30, 2007 and to 1.56% at June 30, 2008. Our total non-accruing loans increased from $841,000 at June 30, 2006 to $2.9 million at June 30, 2007, and decreased to $2.3 million at June 30, 2008. However, the decrease between June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2008 was primarily attributable to completion of foreclosures which increased the balance of real estate owned. At June 30, 2008 classified assets were $5.8 million, an increase from $4.3 million at June 30, 2007. We also identified an additional $4.7 million of loans at June 30, 2008 on our internal watch list including $2.1 million, $2.0 million, $480,000 and $119,000 of commercial real estate, commercial business, one-to-four family and consumer loans, respectively. We identified these loans as higher risk loans and any further deterioration in their financial condition could increase our classified assets. The total watch list credits of $4.7 million reflected a decrease of $172,000 from the total watch list credits as of June 30, 2007. We are highly dependent on key individuals, there has been significant turnover in our management team in the past five years and we are being led by a new management. We are highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. During the past six years we have had four different Presidents and Chief Executive Officers. Our current President and Chief Executive Officer has only served in that position since December 2006 having joined the Savings Bank in September 2006. Our Chief Financial Officer has only been with the Savings Bank since November 2006 and many of the other key members of senior management have been with the Savings Bank for just over a year. While we believe we have in place qualified individuals to replace the individuals who have left the Savings Bank, the new individuals will need to develop a cohesive and unified management team. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. 41 We suspended our regular cash dividend. On March 1, 2007, in response to our recent operating performance, our board of directors decided to suspend our regular cash. The Company did not pay a dividend for six consecutive quarters. A special dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock was declared by the board of directors at its regular meeting in July 2008. Whether we pay dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to generate sufficient earnings to warrant the payment of dividends, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory limitations and general economic conditions. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may depend, in part, on our receipt of dividends from the Savings Bank because the Company has minimal income sources beyond the earnings from the Savings Bank. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate residential mortgage loans (including second mortgage loans), construction loans, commercial mortgage and land loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans primarily within our market area. Generally, the types of loans other than residential mortgage loans have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. We had $89.5 million or 53.57% of our total loan portfolio outstanding in these higher risk loans at June 30, 2008. We have had a significant increase in these types of loans since 1999, when we began to diversify the loan portfolio in order to mitigate other types of risk, such as interest-rate risk. While diversification into construction, commercial real estate and land, commercial business, and consumer loans may have reduced interest-rate risk as a result of their typically shorter terms and, in most cases, adjustable nature of their interest rates, they do expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. The collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons and as discussed in detail under A-- Lending Activities: * Commercial Real Estate and Land Loans. Commercial real estate and land loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover borrowers' operating expenses, as well as, debt service. Loans on land under development or held for future use also pose additional risk because of a lack of income produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. The repayment of loans secured by farm properties is dependent upon the success of farming operations, which is contingent on many factors outside the control of either the borrowers or us. These factors include adverse weather conditions, fluctuating market prices of both final product and production costs, factors affecting the physical condition of livestock and government regulations. * Commercial Business Loans. Repayment of these loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's businesses. * Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as vehicle loans, mobile home loans and personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. * Construction Loans. Construction lending involves the inherent difficulties of estimating the cost of the project and estimating a property's value at completion of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may need to advance 42 funds beyond the original loan amount in order to complete the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our loans are secured by collateral or dependent for repayment on businesses located in our primary market area, consisting of Wright, Webster, Douglas, Christian, Ozark, Stone, Taney and Greene counties in the State of Missouri. As a result, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. Like other financial institutions, our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense incurred on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, changes in the shape of the yield curve, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and investments and limits on increases in the rates of interest charged on our loans. Our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types may lag behind. The result of these changes to rates may result in differing spreads on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest nor be sure our protective measures are adequate. There is strong competition in financial services including the market areas we serve. We compete in our market areas with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and throughout the county. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide profitably. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon the Company's continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit the Company's ability to attract funds or increase its interest-earning assets. For additional information see Item I, ABusiness -- Competition. While management believes that our allowance for loan losses is sufficient to cover realized losses, our earnings could be adversely impacted should additional provisions be required. 43 We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, our loss experience and our delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions, nationally and in our market areas. If our assumptions prove to have been incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.65% of gross loans and 72.1% of non-performing assets at June 30, 2008, however, at June 30, 2008 our allowance was only 48.4% of total classified loans. In addition, the bank regulators periodically review, and as a result of their review, may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. An increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, and, as discussed above, we currently operate under a memorandum of understanding with the Office of Thrift Supervision which places restrictions on our business activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Company must maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders, and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. 44 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 