Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations that we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement actions against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. As discussed above under "Corporate Developments and Overview," we have entered into a Stipulation and Consent to the issuance of Order to Cease and Desist with the OTS, which are now enforced by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the case of the Savings Bank and the Federal Reserve in the case of the Company. Under the terms of the orders, the Savings Bank and the Company, without the prior written approval of their respective banking regulators, may not: · Increase assets during any quarter; · Pay dividends; · Increase brokered deposits; · Repurchase shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock; and · Issue any debt securities or incur any debt (other than that incurred in the normal course of business). Other material provisions of the order require the Savings Bank and the Company to: · develop an acceptable business plan for enhancing, measuring and maintaining profitability, increasing earnings, improving liquidity and maintaining capital levels; 44 · ensure the Savings Bank’s compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and agency guidelines, including the terms of the order; · not appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without notifying the applicable banking regulator; · not enter into, renew, extend or revise any compensation or benefit agreements for directors or senior executive officers; · not make any indemnification, severance or golden parachute payments; · enhance its asset classification policy; · provide progress reports to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regarding certain classified assets; · submit a comprehensive plan for reducing classified assets; · develop a plan to reduce the concentration of certain loans contained in the loan portfolio and that addresses the assessment, monitoring and control of the risks association with the commercial real estate portfolio; · not enter into any arrangement or contract with a third party service provider that is significant to the overall operation or financial of the Savings Bank, or that is outside the normal course of business; and · prepare and submit progress reports to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve. The orders will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve. If the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve determines that we are not in compliance with the orders, they would have available various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to remove officers and/or directors, to assess civil monetary penalties or to enforce the orders through court proceedings. Management has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the orders and the Savings Bank and the Company believes that they are substantially in compliance with the requirements set forth in the orders, as of the date of this Form 10-K. Compliance with the orders, however, is subject to a determination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve, as the case may be. Either the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve may determine, in its sole discretion, that we have not addressed the issues raised by the orders satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions taken by it. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2011, $54.9 million, or 56.2% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four family residential real estate loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that 45 significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans held for investment and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, a lack of growth and/or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate residential mortgage loans (including second mortgage loans), construction loans, commercial mortgage and land loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans primarily within our market area. Generally, the types of loans other than residential mortgage loans have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. We had $40.4 million or 41.4% of our total loan portfolio outstanding in these higher risk loans at June 30, 2011. We have had a significant increase in these types of loans since 1999, when we began to diversify the loan portfolio in order to mitigate other types of risk, such as interest-rate risk. While diversification into construction, commercial real estate and land, commercial business, and consumer loans may have reduced interest-rate risk as a result of their typically shorter terms and, in most cases, adjustable nature of their interest rates, they do expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. The collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons and as discussed in detail under “--Lending Activities”: · Commercial Real Estate and Land Loans. Commercial real estate and land loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover borrowers' operating expenses, as well as, debt service. Loans on land under development or held for future use also pose additional risk because of a lack of income produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. The repayment of loans secured by farm properties is dependent upon the success of farming operations, which is contingent on many factors outside the control of either the borrowers or us. These factors include adverse weather conditions, fluctuating market prices of both final product and production costs, factors affecting the physical condition of livestock and government regulations. · Commercial Business Loans. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as vehicle loans, mobile home 46 loans and personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. · Construction Loans. Construction lending in lending involves the inherent difficulties of estimating the cost of the project and estimating a property's value at completion of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may need to advance funds beyond the original loan amount in order to complete the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; · the duration of the loan; · the credit history of a particular borrower; and · changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in 47 the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was $1.9 million or 2.03% of gross loans held for investment and 180.9% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2011. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.2 million compared to $852,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Our results of operations for fiscal 2011 were severely impacted by the $1.2 million provision for loan losses. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 compared to $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we experienced increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Our non-performing loans and assets for those years reflected operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy; however, more recently, conditions in the general economy have shown some small signs of improvement and many of the loans that contributed to the increased levels of loan delinquencies and non-performing loans have been resolved through foreclosure, forfeiture, charge down or other forms of resolution. At June 30, 2011, our total non-performing loans had decreased to $1.3 million, or 1.4% of gross loans, compared to $3.9 million, or 3.5% of gross loans, at June 30, 2010. Current trends in the housing and real estate markets remain challenging. Changes in our delinquencies and credit losses, will also remain unpredictable. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the eight counties of Wright, Webster, Douglas, Christian, Ozark, Stone, Taney and Greene in the State of Missouri, which we consider to be our primary market area. In addition to loans within our primary market area, we also have originated loans in 11 other states. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; 48 · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; · the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and · the price of our common stock may decrease. We may have continuing losses and low earnings. We have had losses and reduced net income in recent years. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had net losses of $4.1 million, $1.5 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Our returns on average assets and average equity were negative for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, due to the losses we incurred for those years. We continue to face considerable challenges that will hinder our ability to improve our earnings significantly. These challenges include the restriction on our operations under the Cease and Desist Orders, the increased level of our problem loans, and the pressure on our interest rate spread. While we have identified and are implementing various strategic initiatives to improve earnings and to overcome these operating and other challenges, our strategic initiatives might not succeed in increasing our net income. We have had a significant amount of problem loans and related losses. Between 1999 and 2008, the Savings Bank focused on increasing our commercial business loan and commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, in light of the economic downturn, which began in fiscal 2008, we recognized substantial write-offs in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, due primarily to commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Our ratio of non-performing assets to total assets increased steadily from 0.59% at June 30, 2006 to 6.19% at June 30, 2010. Our total non-accruing loans increased from $841,000 at June 30, 2006 to $3.9 million at June 30, 2010. While the economy created difficulties for businesses, consumers quickly felt the impact as jobs disappeared. During fiscal 2011, there was some modest, although short lived, improvement in economic conditions. At June 30, 2011, our non-accruing loans decreased by $2.8 million to $1.1 million from $3.9 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the ratio of our non-performing assets to total assets decreased to 5.00% at June 30, 2011 from 6.19% at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2011, classified assets were $10.5 million, a decrease of $1.1 million from $11.6 million at June 30, 2010, and a decrease of $1.5 million from $12.0 at June 30, 2009. We also indentified an additional loan of $176,000 at June 30, 2011 as Special Mention. This item could increase our classified assets if there was further deterioration in its financial condition. The loan is a commercial real estate loan. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and re-pricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our 49 interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact stockholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. If the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines or other wholesale funding sources. We are dependent on key members of our senior management team, which has changed significantly in the past five years. We are dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key management personnel. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. We have had four different Presidents and five different Chief Executive Officers since 2003. Our current President was appointed in November 2008 and has been employed by the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2007. In addition, our current Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer has only served in that position since May 2011. Finally, our Chief Financial Officer has been with the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2006, and many of our other key members of senior management have been with the Savings Bank for just over four years. While we believe we have qualified individuals in place to succeed the individuals who have left the Savings Bank, these individuals will need to develop a cohesive and unified senior management team. Any additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums increased significantly in 2009 and we may pay higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum reserve ratio. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in 50 the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has set 2.0 as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. If we are required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our banking regulators, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties.” Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such 51 technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business –- Regulation of First Home” and “—Regulation of First Bancshares.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. For example, a federal rule which took effect on July 1, 2010 prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This new rule adversely affected our non-interest income during the second half of fiscal 2010 and throughout all of fiscal 2011. It is likely to continue to adversely affect the results of our operations by reducing the amount of our non-interest income. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with the various regulations to which we are subject. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. In addition, the banking regulators are required to seek to make capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies, countercyclical so that capital requirements 52 increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts and IOLTA accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the federal banking regulators to issue rules prohibiting incentive compensation that encourages inappropriate risks. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Savings Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act also eliminated the OTS effective July 21, 2011. With the elimination of the OTS, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is now the primary federal banking regulator for the Savings Bank, making the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the primary federal banking regulator for the Company, eventually imposing capital requirements on the Company, and implementing numerous other changes. No assurances can be given as to whether or in what form such changes may occur. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations is expected to result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be 53 required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We have suspended our regular cash dividend. We have not paid a regular cash dividend since March 2007, when our board of directors determined to suspend our regular cash dividend in response to our operating performance. A special dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock was declared by the board of directors at its regular meeting in July 2008. Any dividends we pay in the future will depend on a number of factors, including our capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to generate sufficient earnings to warrant the payment of dividends, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory limitations and general economic conditions. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may depend, in part, on our receipt of dividends from the Savings Bank because the Company has minimal income sources beyond the earnings from the Savings Bank. Under the Cease and Desist Orders currently in place, both the Company and the Savings Bank must request permission from their respective federal banking regulators in order to make a dividend payment. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Company must maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders, and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 54 