Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Information." Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition. We continue to be highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. As of January 2, 2005, our total long-term debt and revolving credit borrowings were approximately $750.5 million and our stockholders' deficiency was approximately $358.3 million. As of January 2, 2005, we had approximately $25.0 million in revolving loan availability and approximately $22.1 million in outstanding letters of credit. We may also incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt agreements. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences. For example: o our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be limited; o a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations; o some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates or our inability to achieve certain financial conditions; and o our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, our bank lenders could cause all amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Secured Term Loan to be due and payable immediately. On August 18, 2003, Foamex L.P. and its bank lenders executed a $240.0 million Senior Secured Credit Facility (the "Senior Secured Credit Facility") and an $80.0 million Secured Term Loan with another lending group (the "Secured Term Loan"), which, among other things, requires Foamex L.P. to meet a financial covenant. On November 3, 2004, Foamex L.P. entered into amendments to the financing agreements with the existing lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Secured Term Loan to provide up to $54.0 million of new financing, the proceeds of which could be used only to repurchase prior to or repay Foamex L.P.'s 13 1/2% senior subordinated notes currently in the face amount of $51.6 million (the "13 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes") due on August 15, 2005 and certain fees related to the new financing. The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility have agreed to lend up to $15.0 million under a new junior term loan with a floating interest rate based upon either LIBOR, as defined, reset monthly plus 6.00% or a Base Rate, as defined, plus 4.00% with a maturity date of April 30, 2007. The lenders under the Secured Term Loan would lend up to an additional $39.0 million with interest rates identical to the rates under the existing Secured Term Loan. The Secured Term Loan maturity date was also 7 extended to April 1, 2009. Under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Secured Term Loan, as amended, Foamex L.P. is subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined, of 1.00 measured quarterly. On March 15, 2005, the lenders executed waivers to the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Secured Term Loan, which waived compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio for the four consecutive quarter period ended January 2, 2005. On March 31, 2005, Foamex L.P. entered into amendments with the existing lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Secured Term Loan which modified the fixed charge coverage ratio for the first quarter of 2005 through the first quarter of 2006, at which time the fixed charge coverage ratio will be 1.00 for the second quarter of 2006 and thereafter, and permit borrowing of up to $25.0 million of the additional $39.0 million commitment under the Secured Term Loan, the proceeds of which would be used to repay revolving loans. Foamex L.P.'s ability to comply with the revised covenant will be substantially dependent on an improved gross profit margin and lower administrative costs. If we are unable to comply with the revised financial covenant, the bank lenders could cause all amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Secured Term Loan to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of Foamex L.P.'s other debt instruments, which unless cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us and could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt service obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. For the last three fiscal years we have not generated enough cash flow from operations sufficient to pay our debt service obligations and capital expenditures. Our annual debt service obligations will increase by $2.4 million per year for each 1% increase in interest rates, based on the balance of variable rate debt outstanding as of January 2, 2005. Our estimated debt service obligation for 2005 is $136.2 million, based on levels of debt and interest rates in effect at January 2, 2005. As described in the previous risk factor, we have arranged for additional borrowings under the Secured Term Loan and junior term loan in the aggregate amount of up to $54.0 million to repay the 13 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our other debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We may not be able to refinance or restructure our debt or sell assets on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the proceeds of any refinancing, restructuring or asset sale may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be permitted to obtain additional financing under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The Senior Secured Credit Facility, as amended, the Secured Term Loan, as amended, and the indentures relating to Foamex L.P.'s 10 3/4% senior secured notes due 2009, 9 7/8% senior subordinated notes due 2007 and 13 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes restrict Foamex L.P. and its subsidiaries in incurring additional indebtedness, but do not fully prohibit Foamex L.P. and its subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks, including those described above, that we and they now face could intensify, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The price and availability of raw materials account for a significant portion of our manufacturing costs. We have experienced significant increases in raw material costs and may continue to do so. The two principal chemicals used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam are TDI and polyol. The prices of TDI and polyol are influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and oil and natural gas prices. Historically, the price of raw materials has been cyclical and volatile and our principal suppliers of raw materials used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam have significantly increased the price of raw materials several times over the past several years. 8 We attempt to offset raw material price increases through selling price increases and manufacturing process efficiencies, but we were not able to fully do so in 2004. Our major chemical suppliers implemented price increases of approximately 10% effective March 1, 2005. Our suppliers of TDI and polyol, as well as our other suppliers, may increase raw material prices in the future and we may not be able to implement additional selling price increases to fully offset raw material cost increases. A failure to recover cost increases could result in debt covenant violations which may lead to lenders demanding immediate payment of our outstanding debt and impair our ability to continue as a going concern. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of TDI and polyol. There are a limited number of major suppliers of TDI and polyol. A disruption in our ability to obtain TDI and/or polyol that continues for a significant period of time could cause us to suspend our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We must effectively manage our other operating expenses. In addition to our ability to effectively increase selling prices in response to raw material cost increases, we must manage and control our other operating expenses including the costs for ongoing compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"). In 2004, we experienced an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, which include expenditures for compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Act. We could incur additional significant costs in implementing improvements to our internal controls over financial reporting. If we incur such costs or are otherwise unable to achieve reductions in other operating expenses and in our selling, general and administrative expenses, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our net sales. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. Sales to our five largest customers together accounted for approximately 29.6% of our net sales in 2004, 34.7% of our net sales in 2003, and 33.8% of our net sales in 2002. Sales to Johnson Controls, our largest customer, accounted for 12.5% of our net sales in 2004, 16.3% of our net sales in 2003, and 17.3% of our net sales in 2002. The loss, or a substantial decrease in the amount, of purchases by any of our major customers could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our customers' financial condition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we extend trade credit to our customers. In the event our customers, in the aggregate or certain significant customers, are not able to pay us for our products on a timely basis or at all, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur significant costs if we are unable to renew leases for certain of our manufacturing facilities. We lease certain of our foam pouring facilities. In the event we are unable to renew our leases at these facilities, we could incur significant costs in relocating our manufacturing operations. Such costs could include the actual removal and relocation of equipment and inventory, lost production time associated with the transition, relocation of certain key employees, training employees at the relocated manufacturing facilities, and additional costs for preparing the new locations for operations. In addition, we may not be able to secure the required permits at an optimal location. If we were unable to renew a lease and were forced to relocate, the costs associated with such relocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our real property are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances, the discharge or emission of materials into the environment and the remediation of environmental contamination. We are currently remediating soil and groundwater contamination in excess of state standards at several of our current and former facilities. Further, we are currently designated as a Potentially Responsible Party, or "PRP," by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or "EPA", or by state environmental agencies or by other PRPs relating to 12 sites. We have accrued our estimated costs for remediation of these sites. If there are additional sites or our estimates are not correct, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist on our properties. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, and discovery of new conditions may require us to make additional expenditures, which may be material. Our business is cyclical. The polyurethane foam business is cyclical to the extent that our customers are in cyclical industries. We are especially subject to the cyclical nature of the automotive, housing, technology and furniture and bedding industries. A protracted downturn in the businesses of our customers in any of these industries, either simultaneously or sequentially, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 