Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations that we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders from, and other commitments we have made to, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. As discussed above under "Corporate Developments and Overview," we have entered into a Stipulation and Consent to the issuance of Order to Cease and Desist with the OTS. Under the terms of the OTS orders, the Savings Bank and the Company, without the prior written approval of the OTS, may not: · Increase assets during any quarter; · Pay dividends; · Increase brokered deposits; · Repurchase shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock; and · Issue any debt securities or incur any debt (other than that incurred in the normal course of business). Other material provisions of the order require the Savings Bank and the Company to: 40 · develop a business plan for enhancing, measuring and maintaining profitability, increasing earnings, improving liquidity and maintaining capital levels, acceptable to the OTS; · ensure the Savings Bank’s compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and agency guidelines, including the terms of the order; · not appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without notifying the OTS; · not enter into, renew, extend or revise any compensation or benefit agreements for directors or senior executive officers; · not make any indemnification, severance or golden parachute payments; · enhance its asset classification policy; · provide progress reports to the OTS regarding certain classified assets; · submit a comprehensive plan for reducing classified assets; · develop a plan to reduce its concentration in certain loans contained in the loan portfolio and that addresses the assessment, monitoring and control of the risks association with the commercial real estate portfolio; · not enter into any arrangement or contract with a third party service provider that is significant to the overall operation or financial of the Savings Bank, or that is outside the normal course of business; and · prepare and submit progress reports to the OTS. The OTS orders will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the OTS. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2009, $71.1 million, or 51.9% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to four-family residential real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. The decline in residential real estate values due to the downturn in the housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans held for investment and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate residential mortgage loans (including second mortgage loans), construction loans, commercial mortgage and land loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans primarily within our market area. Generally, the types of loans other than residential mortgage loans have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. We had $62.2 million or 45.36% of our 41 total loan portfolio outstanding in these higher risk loans at June 30, 2009. We have had a significant increase in these types of loans since 1999, when we began to diversify the loan portfolio in order to mitigate other types of risk, such as interest-rate risk. While diversification into construction, commercial real estate and land, commercial business, and consumer loans may have reduced interest-rate risk as a result of their typically shorter terms and, in most cases, adjustable nature of their interest rates, they do expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. The collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons and as discussed in detail under A-- Lending Activities”: · Commercial Real Estate and Land Loans. Commercial real estate and land loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover borrowers' operating expenses, as well as, debt service. Loans on land under development or held for future use also pose additional risk because of a lack of income produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. The repayment of loans secured by farm properties is dependent upon the success of farming operations, which is contingent on many factors outside the control of either the borrowers or us. These factors include adverse weather conditions, fluctuating market prices of both final product and production costs, factors affecting the physical condition of livestock and government regulations. · Commercial Business Loans. Repayment of these loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's businesses. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as vehicle loans, mobile home loans and personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. · Construction Loans. Construction lending in lending involves the inherent difficulties of estimating the cost of the project and estimating a property's value at completion of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may need to advance funds beyond the original loan amount in order to complete the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; · the duration of the loan; 42 · the credit history of a particular borrower; and · changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $5.3 million compared to $1.3 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, which severely impacted our results of operations for fiscal 2009. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to $1.2 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and non-performing loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction loans, which represented 4.5% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2009. In addition, slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in non-performing loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At June 30, 2009, our total non-performing loans increased to $3.3 million, or 2.4% of total loans, compared to $2.7 million, or 1.6% of total loans, at June 30, 2008. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we will continue to experience significant delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we will continue to make provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 43 The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Missouri and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers located primarily in the eight counties of Wright, Webster, Douglas, Christian, Ozark, Stone, Taney and, since July 2006, Greene counties in Missouri. As of June 30, 2009, substantially our entire real estate portfolio consisted of loans secured by properties located in Missouri, with only 21 real estate loans totaling $4.9 million secured by properties outside of Missouri. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and · the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Beginning in 2007 and continuing into 2009, the U.S. housing market has experienced significant adverse trends, including accelerated price depreciation in some markets and rising delinquency and default rates. Our construction and land loan portfolios, commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. During the past year, evidence of this downturn became more apparent in the markets we serve, and contributed substantially to the increase in the provision for loan losses, the increases in delinquencies, foreclosures and repossessions. While we are inclined to think “the worst is over”, we realize that further declines in the markets will hurt our business. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security, and our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, making it more likely that we will suffer losses on defaulted loans. As a result of these trends, we have recently experienced an increase in delinquency and default rates, particularly in construction and land loans in our primary market areas. These trends if they continue or worsen could cause further credit losses and loan loss provisioning and could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We have had losses and low earnings in recent years. Our net income has decreased in recent years. Net income was $363,000, $272,000, $1.3 million, and $2.3 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We had net losses of $4.0 million and $173,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2006, respectively. Our return on average assets was 0.15%, 0.09%, 0.51%, and 0.87% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, 2005, and 2004 and our return on average 44 equity was 1.34%, 0.77%, 4.60%, and 8.49% for the same years. Our returns on average assets and average equity were negative for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2006, as we incurred net losses for those years. We face considerable challenges that will hinder our ability to improve our earnings significantly. These challenges include the restriction on our operations under the Cease and Desist Orders with the Office of Thrift Supervision, as discussed above, the increase in our problem loans, as discussed below, and our low interest rate spread. Our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, declined from 2.96% for the year ended June 30, 2006 to 2.71% for the year June 30, 2007. For the year ended June 30, 2008, our interest rate spread improved to 3.01%, but declined again during the year ended June 30, 2009 to 2.94%. While we have identified various strategic initiatives we are pursuing in our efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings, our strategic initiatives might not succeed in increasing our net income.We have had a significant amount of problem loans and related losses. Since 1999, we have focused our efforts on increasing our commercial business loan and commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, as a result, we recognized substantial write-offs in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, 2006 and 2005. Our ratio of non-performing assets to total assets increased from 0.59% at June 30, 2006 to 1.47% at June 30, 2007, to 1.56% at June 30, 2008 and to 2.18% at June 30, 2009. Our total non-accruing loans increased from $841,000 at June 30, 2006 to $2.9 million at June 30, 2007, decreased to $2.3 million at June 30, 2008 and increased to $3.0 million at June 30, 2009. The increase in non-performing loans between June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2009 was primarily attributable to the impact of current economic conditions on borrowers, both commercial and consumer. At June 30, 2009, classified assets were $12.0 million, an increase from $7.0 million at June 30, 2008. We also indentified an additional $13.4 million of loans at June 30, 2009 on our internal watch list that could increase our classified assets if there was further deterioration in their financial condition. These loans include $2.4 million, $7.8 million, $1.6 million, $1.5 million and $47,000 of 1-4 family residential real estate, commercial real estate, land, commercial non-real estate and consumer loans, respectively. Our internal watch list of $13.4 million as of June 30, 2009 reflects an increase of $8.7 million from $4.7 million at June 30, 2008. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on interest-bearing deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We manage our assets and liabilities in order to achieve long-term profitability while limiting our exposure to the fluctuation of interest rates. We anticipate periodic imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationship of various interest rates to 45 each other. At any reporting period, we may have earning assets which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. The fluctuation of market interest rates can materially affect our net interest spread, interest margin, loan originations, deposit volumes and overall profitability. Additionally, there is a risk attributable to calculation methods (modeling risks) and assumptions used in the model to calculate our interest rate risk exposure, including loan prepayment and forward interest rate assumptions. Continued or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines or other wholesale funding sources. We are highly dependent on key members of our senior management team, which has changed significantly in the past five years, and we currently are being led by new senior management. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key management personnel. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. During the past six years we have had four different Presidents and Chief Executive Officers. Our current President was appointed to that position in November 2008 and has only been employed by the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2007. In addition, our current Chief Executive Officer has only served in that position since November 2008; however, he has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2005. Finally, our Chief Financial Officer has only been with the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2006, and many of our other key members of senior management have been with the Savings Bank for just over a year. While we believe we have qualified individuals in place to succeed the individuals who have left the Savings Bank, these individuals will need to develop a cohesive and unified senior management team. Any additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. The FDIC has increased deposit insurance premiums to restore and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, which has increased our costs. During the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC increased deposit insurance assessment rates generally and imposed a special assessment of five basis points on each insured institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital. This special assessment was calculated based on the insured institution’s assets at June 30, 2009, and will be collected on September 30, 2009. Based on the assets of First Home as of June 30, 2009 subject to the FDIC assessment, the 46 special assessment totaled $99,000. This special assessment is in addition to the regular quarterly risk-based assessment. The FDIC has announced that an additional special assessment in 2009 of up to five basis points is probable. The FDIC deposit insurance fund may suffer additional losses in the future due to bank failures. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. There is strong competition in financial services including the market areas we serve. We compete in our market areas with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and throughout the county. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide profitably. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon the Company's continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit the Company's ability to attract funds or increase its interest-earning assets. For additional information see Item I, ABusiness -- Competition. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, and, as discussed above, we currently operate under Cease and Desist Orders with the Office of Thrift Supervision which places restrictions on our business activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or 47 policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. Legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not be successful in stabilizing the U.S. financial system or improving the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). The EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: · authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; · mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; · temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through to December 31, 2013; and · authority for the Securities and Exchange Commission to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program (“CPP”), pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the CPP restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop 48 liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive to acquire financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. The FDIC established its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) in October, 2008. Under the interim rule for the TLGP, there are two parts to the program: the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”) and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”). Eligible entities are participants unless they opted out on or before December 5, 2008 and pay various fees. Under the DGP, the FDIC guarantees new senior unsecured debt certain convertible debt of an eligible holding companies and insured institutions issued no later than October 31, 2009. The guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012 (for debt issued before April 1, 2009) or December 31, 2012 (for debt issued on or after April 1, 2009) . The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity’s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009, or for certain institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Under the TAGP, the FDIC provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage for non interest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts), NOW accounts bearing interest at 0.5% or less, and certain funds swept into non interest-bearing savings accounts. NOW accounts and money market deposit accounts are not covered. The TAGP remains in effect for participants until December 31, 2009, and unless they opt out of the extension, through the extension period from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. The actual impact that EESA, ARRA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. We suspended our regular cash dividend. On March 1, 2007, in response to our recent operating performance, our board of directors decided to suspend our regular cash. The Company did not pay a dividend for six consecutive quarters. A special dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock was declared by the board of directors at its regular meeting in July 2008. Whether we pay dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to generate sufficient earnings to warrant the payment of dividends, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory limitations and general economic conditions. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may depend, in part, on our receipt of dividends from the Savings Bank because the Company has minimal income sources beyond the earnings from the Savings Bank. Under the Cease and Desist Orders currently in place, both the Company and the Savings Bank must request permission from the OTS at least 30 days in advance of the proposed dividend payment and obtain a non-objection letter from the OTS. 49 Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Company must maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders, and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. Item 