ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors about us. Certain statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See item 7 - Managements' Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Forward-Looking Statements." Based on the current terms of our proposed Plan of Reorganization, we expect our existing shareholders' investment to be extinguished. If our proposed Plan or a similar plan is confirmed and implemented, our existing common and preferred stock will be cancelled and current shareholders will receive no distribution or other consideration in exchange for their shares. Operating in bankruptcy imposes significant risks on our operations. We cannot predict when we will confirm a plan of reorganization and successfully emerge from bankruptcy. We are not certain about when we will emerge from bankruptcy. The timing of our emergence from bankruptcy and the terms of our emergence may affect our relationships with our creditors, customers, suppliers and employees and have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to continue operating in bankruptcy as a going concern and to emerge from bankruptcy will depend upon the following factors, among others: o our ability to reach agreement with our creditors regarding a plan of reorganization or otherwise to "cramdown" a plan in order to emerge from bankruptcy; o our ability to comply with and operate under the terms of the debtor-in-possession financing we obtained upon filing for bankruptcy and any cash management orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court from time to time, which subject the debtor entities to restrictions, including restrictions on paying dividends and transferring cash and other assets; o our ability to maintain adequate debtor-in-possession financing and to generate cash from operations; o the ability of our non-debtor subsidiaries to generate cash from operations or obtain financing, if necessary; o our ability to access exit financing sufficient to fund emergence and to fund our operations after emergence from bankruptcy on reasonable terms; o our ability to retain key employees; and o our ability to maintain good customer and supplier relationships in light of developments in our bankruptcy cases and the terms of our emergence. As a result of our Chapter 11 cases, our historical financial information will not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure will likely be significantly changed under any plan of reorganization. Under fresh start accounting rules that may apply to us upon the effective date of any plan of reorganization, our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh start accounting rules apply, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. 9 The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Bankruptcy and Basis of Presentation, there is significant uncertainty as to changes in our ownership. Our plans concerning this matter also are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our historical financial information will not be indicative of our financial performance following our emergence from the bankruptcy case upon the implementation of a plan of reorganization approved by the Bankruptcy Court. Under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code," certain of our outstanding debt is classified as liabilities subject to compromise, and interest expense on the unsecured portion of this debt has not been accrued since September 19, 2005 (the "Petition Date"). From the Petition Date through January 1, 2006, contractual interest expense not accrued or recorded on pre-petition debt aggregated approximately $6.5 million. This calculation excludes the impact of any compounding of interest on unpaid interest that may be payable under the relevant contractual obligations, as well as any interest that may be payable under a plan of reorganization to trade or other creditors. We have net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income taxes aggregating $291.6 million at January 1, 2006. If we are successful in emerging from Chapter 11, it is likely that the net operating loss carryforwards will be reduced (and possibly eliminated) depending upon the terms of a confirmed plan of reorganization. In connection with the Chapter 11 cases and the development of any plan of reorganization, it is also possible that additional restructuring and similar charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations in any given period. The prices of raw materials account for a significant portion of our manufacturing costs. We have experienced significant increases in raw material costs since the middle of 2002. Our ability to pass on cost increases may be hindered by competition or selling price increases may encourage substitutions for foam in the bedding and furniture industries. The two principal chemicals used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam are TDI and polyol. Prices are influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and oil and natural gas prices. Historically, the prices of raw materials have been cyclical and volatile and our principal suppliers of raw materials used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam have significantly increased the price of raw materials several times over the past several years. We have been more successful in implementing selling price increases in the fourth quarter of 2005 than historically. However, these price increases have reduced volumes and have created the potential for the substitution of other materials by our customers. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of TDI and polyol. There are a limited number of major suppliers of TDI and polyol and their manufacturing capacity is concentrated on the U.S. Gulf Coast. A disruption in our ability to obtain TDI and polyol that continues for a significant period of time could cause us to suspend all or a portion of our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Two recent examples of such disruptions were Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. We must effectively manage our other operating expenses. In addition to our ability to effectively increase selling prices in response to raw material cost increases, we must manage and control our other operating expenses. If we are unable to achieve reductions in other operating expenses and in our selling, general and administrative expenses, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our net sales. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. Sales to our five largest customers together accounted for approximately 27.1% of our net sales in 2005, 29.6% of our net sales in 2004, and 34.7% of our net sales in 2003. Sales to Johnson Controls, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 10.7% of our net sales in 2005, 12.5% of our net sales in 2004 and 16.3% of our net sales in 2003. The loss, or a substantial decrease in the amount, of purchases by any of our major customers could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our customers' financial condition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we extend trade credit to our customers. In the event our customers, in the aggregate or certain significant customers, are not able to pay us for our products on a timely basis or at all, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent increases in selling prices to our customers may increase the risk that some customers may not be able to pay us on a timely basis or at all. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our real property are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances, the discharge or emission of materials into the environment and the remediation of environmental contamination. We are currently remediating soil and groundwater contamination in excess of state standards at several of our current and former facilities. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist on our properties. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, and discovery of new conditions may require us to make additional expenditures, which may be material. Our business has excess capacity and is cyclical. The polyurethane foam business has limited financial barriers to entry and presently has excess capacity. The business is also cyclical to the extent that our customers are in cyclical industries. We are especially subject to the cyclical nature of the automotive, housing, technology and furniture and bedding industries. A protracted downturn in the businesses of our customers in any of these industries, either simultaneously or sequentially, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, problems facing the North American automotive industry have negatively impacted our automotive business and may continue to do so. In 2005, we recorded impairment charges of $35.4 million for the entire amount of goodwill applicable to the Automotive Products operating segment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 