RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations could be significantly affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the "Forward-Looking Statements" discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In 2011 our businesses have been impacted by the general worldwide economic climate and the effects of macro-economic conditions will continue to impact on our results in 2012. In addition, further deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on the level of demand for our products and services. This could also impact our growth in mobile telecommunications, and / or broadband products and services. Telecommunications in emerging markets in general and in our markets in particular, account for a significant part of GDP's and of disposable income. As such, any change in economic activity level may impact our business. General inflation could affect our business as consumers' acceptance of potential price increases of our products is uncertain. Food price inflation may affect low income customers and may lead to a redistribution of income within the countries where we operate. Risks Relating to our Business Emerging Markets Risks Some of the countries in which we operate have a history of political instability and any current or future instability may negatively affect our revenues or ability to conduct business. We offer mobile telephony and cable services in 15 markets in Central America, South America and Africa. Many of the countries in which we operate are considered to be emerging economies and can therefore be subject to greater political and economic risk than developed countries. The governments of these 15 countries differ widely with respect to type of government, constitution, and stability and many of these countries lack mature legal and regulatory systems. Some of the countries in which we operate suffer from political instability, civil unrest, or war-like actions by anti-government insurgent groups. These problems may continue or worsen, potentially resulting in significant social unrest or civil war. For example, some social unrest took place around the 2011 election in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and tension in Senegal before the February 2012 election. We face a number of risks as a result of such instability, ranging from the risk of network disruption, forced and illegal abuse of our network by political forces, to the risk that we may have to evacuate some or all of our key staff from certain countries, in which case there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to operate our business as previously in such countries. Any of these events would adversely affect our revenues or results of operations. Many of the countries in which we operate have weak legal and telecommunications regulatory regimes compared to those in developed countries. We must obtain and retain licenses or similar concessions from the governments of the countries in which we operate to enable us to provide telecommunications services. Our ability to operate is therefore dependent on the granting, retention and renewal of licenses in each country. These licenses 5 Table of Contents generally allow our companies to operate for a number of years, after which they are subject to renewal. To the extent that our operations depend on governmental approval and regulatory decisions, our local businesses may be adversely affected by changes in the political structure or by actions or decisions of specific government representatives in each market. There is a risk that governments could arbitrarily revoke licenses or impose new conditions that we do not agree with and may not get consulted about in advance. For example, in 2008 the government of Senegal challenged the validity of our license when we refused to pay additional amounts for the license that we validly hold and that does not expire until 2018. We are currently in litigation relating to this dispute. We may not always have access to efficient avenues for appeal and may have to accept arbitrary conditions imposed upon us. This could adversely affect our business and our revenues. Our only avenue of recourse may often be to the judicial system of the relevant country and the legal and court systems of many countries in which we operate are underdeveloped and can be subject to political influence and other inherent uncertainties. It can therefore be difficult to obtain a rapid, fair and unbiased resolution of disagreements with governmental authorities. Our ability to renew licenses and the costs of such renewals cannot be reliably predicted even if comparable renewals exist in other markets. Even where we have other options, such as claiming compensation in arbitration proceedings for violations of a bilateral investment treaty, the process can be lengthy and costly. For example, a final decision from the arbitration we filed against the government of Senegal before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes in November 2008 is expected in the course of 2012. Even if successful, the enforcement of any award favorable to us could be challenging. Some of the countries in which we operate have political regimes that may not view foreign business interests favorably and may attempt to expropriate all or part of our local assets or impose controls on our operations. This risk exists in all of the countries in which we operate. For example, in 2008 the Bolivian government nationalized the telecommunications company Entel, which had been privatized under previous presidential regimes. Other such actions might take place in our sector in connection with government decisions to regain more control over national economies or industries considered to be of strategic national importance in the countries in which we operate. We are also exposed to risks that governments of the countries in which we operate may impose measures to lower tariffs offered to customers and improve the offer and availability of mobile telephony and other telecommunications services in isolated rural areas, or increased taxes on private foreign owned businesses such as ours, to increase government revenues. Measures like these may have the effect of increasing our network operation or rollout costs and reducing the profitability of our operations and threaten the return on investment. Most of the countries in which we operate have underdeveloped economies with low gross domestic product ("GDP") per capita and therefore any increased inflationary pressures and downturns could significantly impact our revenues. We offer our services in emerging market countries with economies at various stages of development or structural reform and our operations are largely dependent on the health of the economies in which we operate. Most of these economies have large populations living on a day-to-day basis and primarily spending income on basic items such as food, housing and clothing, and have less income to spend on mobile telephony services. Downturns in the economies of any particular country or region in which we operate may adversely affect demand for our services, which would negatively impact our revenues. 6 Table of Contents Some of these countries have historically experienced high inflation rates, although in recent years inflation rates in all countries where we operate have been reasonable. Periods of significant inflation in any of our markets, notably food price inflation, could adversely affect our costs and financial condition as well as the purchasing power for telecommunications services at the lower end of the customer pyramid. Many of the countries where we operate lack infrastructure or have infrastructure in very poor condition and, particularly in Africa, have an insufficient electricity supply. With the exception of Mauritius and Colombia, the countries in which we operate often lack modern infrastructure or have infrastructure in poor or very poor condition, including in particular roads and power networks. The lack of suitable infrastructure is particularly acute in countries recovering from civil wars, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Rwanda, and in countries suffering from civil war-like events, such as Chad. In general, the rural areas in each of our operations often lack even the most basic infrastructure, as any development tends to be concentrated in urban areas. Millicom must often build its cell sites without the benefit of roads and other infrastructures, which increases our network development and maintenance costs. The electricity supply is insufficient in certain countries in which we operate (predominantly in Africa, with the exception of Mauritius) due to underdevelopment of electricity sectors compared to the pace of economic growth in such countries. In certain countries we must rely on diesel powered generators or solar panels to power our radio sites. In Chad, at December 31, 2011, almost 100% of our sites were powered by diesel powered generators. This increases our costs and impacts the profitability of our African operations. To some extent this is mitigated by the sale of our towers in Ghana, DRC and Tanzania. We have been subject to increasing foreign taxes or reducing tariffs in the countries in which we operate, which reduces amounts we receive from our operations and may increase our tax costs or cut interconnection revenue. Many governments and regulators in the countries in which we operate have imposed new taxes or increased the rates of existing taxes applicable to corporations, or reduced tariffs (interconnect rates) to raise government revenue or to increase access to the service. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressure or provisions of new tax laws may prevent us from passing these taxes onto our customers. Consequently, any increase in taxes applicable to our operating subsidiaries could reduce the earnings they generate or reduce the consumption of our services. For example, we have had mobile termination rate cuts in Colombia, rain taxes in Colombia imposed in 2011, and will have increases in income tax rates from 2012 in El Salvador, and expect new taxes in Bolivia and El Salvador and a flat tariff structure in Paraguay. We could be subject to the impact of a deteriorating economic environment within developed countries. Many people in the countries in which we operate receive significant inflows of funds from relatives and friends who work abroad in more developed countries. A significant deterioration in the developed country economies resulting in job losses or reduced wages could impact the ability of those abroad to continue remitting funds. Lower remittances would reduce disposable incomes of many of our customers which would negatively impact our revenues. For example, in 2009 remittances of funds from migrant workers in the United States of America to Central America decreased by more than 10%. Deterioration in more developed economies could also put pressure on the amount of foreign aid provided to the developing countries in which we operate and could increase local governments' needs to generate revenue through taxation and thereby reduce the ability of consumers to buy our products and services. 7 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations or devaluations may reduce our profitability and the value of our assets. Exchange rates for currencies of most of the countries in which our companies operate fluctuate in relation to the US$ and such fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our earnings, assets and cash flows when translating local currency into US$. For each of our operations that report their results in a currency other than the US$, a decrease in the value of that currency against the US$ reduces our profits while also reducing our assets and liabilities. To the extent that our operations retain earnings or distribute dividends in local currencies, the amount of US$ we receive is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates against the US$. In addition, exchange rates are impacting Millicom's earnings, assets and cash flows as many of our operating subsidiaries have US$ denominated debt, due to unavailability of, or lack of commercially acceptable long-term financing in local currencies. Due to lack of available instruments in many of the countries or currencies in which we operate we are not able to hedge against foreign currency exposures. Millicom had a net exchange loss of $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to a loss of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Most of our operations generate revenue in the currency of the country in which they operate. The governments of the countries in which our operations are located may impose foreign exchange controls that could restrict our ability to receive funds from the operations. As substantially all our revenues are generated by our local operations we are reliant on their ability to transfer funds to the Company. Although foreign exchange controls exist in some of the countries in which our companies operate, none of these controls significantly restricts the ability of our operating companies to pay interest, dividends, technical service fees, and royalty fees or repay loans by exporting cash, instruments of credit or securities in foreign currencies. However, foreign exchange controls may be strengthened, or introduced in the countries where we operate, which could restrict the Company's ability to receive funds from those operations. Such restrictions could impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, in some countries it may be difficult to convert local currency into foreign currency due to limited liquidity in foreign exchange markets. The practical effects of this are time delays in accumulating significant amounts of foreign currency, and exchange risk, which could have an adverse effect on the Group's results of operations. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exposure may be limited by restrictions in hedging instruments. At operational level we seek to reduce our foreign exchange exposure through a policy of matching, as far as possible, cash inflows and outflows. Where possible and where financially viable, we borrow in local currency to hedge against local currency exchange risks. Our ability to reduce our foreign currency exchange exposure may be limited by lack of long-term financing in local currency. As such, there is a risk that we may not be able to finance local capital expenditure needs or reduce our foreign exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency. We own our operating companies through holding companies in jurisdictions which may enact changes to their respective laws that may unfavorably impact our financial status or tax treatment. We hold ownership in our operating companies through subsidiaries in various jurisdictions in and outside Luxembourg, mainly, but not exclusively, through holding companies incorporated in the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles. The laws or administrative practices relating to taxation (including the current position as to withholding taxes on dividends paid by our local operations and 8 Table of Contents tax concessions we have obtained in certain of our countries of operation), foreign exchange controls, or other matters, are subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse impact on our financial affairs and on our ability to receive, or the tax treatment of, funds from our local operations especially as we now remit more significant amounts of money in the form of dividends, royalties, management fees and repayment of shareholders' loans. Our failure to comply with local and international laws and regulations could result in liabilities and sanctions and this could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to local laws and regulations as well as several laws and regulations with worldwide application, including as promulgated by: •the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), •the European Union (EU), through directives that are either directly applicable or that get translated into the law of the country of incorporation, •Sweden and Swedish institutions including those issued by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, •the World Trade Organisation, •the federal laws of the United States of America, including the securities laws thereof, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997, and •the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, where the Company is incorporated. These laws and regulations affect where and how our business may be conducted. In addition, our shareholders, lenders, suppliers or other entities with which the Company and its operating subsidiaries conduct business may be subject to or seek to comply with these laws and regulations. Although the Company focuses on compliance activities, there is a risk that non-compliance issues may arise with respect to the Company or its operating subsidiaries or any employee thereof. Any instances of non-compliance may result in consequences ranging from negative publicity and reputational damage to criminal and civil liability and the application of fines or disgorgement of profits to the Company on account of any of its employees or directors or the employees or directors of any of its operating subsidiaries. Any of the foregoing would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and, or results of operations. Risks Related to our Operations and the Mobile Telephony Market We face intense competition in the mobile telephone operator market. Our mobile telephony operations face competition from other mobile telephone operators in the markets in which they operate, as well as fixed line operators in some markets. Our main competitors are America Móvil (Claro), MTN, Bharti, France Telecom (Orange), Vodafone, and Telefonica. Additional mobile telephony licenses could be granted in some of our existing markets. Moreover, additional licenses may be awarded in markets where we already face competition from other technologies that are being or may be developed and/or perfected in the future. In some of our markets, there may be more mobile telephone operators than the market is able to sustain. In addition, in some of our markets, our competitors may have a greater coverage area than we do. The mobile telephone operators in each market compete for customers principally on the basis of services offered, quality of service, coverage area, accessibility of distribution and price. Most of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources than we do. Price competition is significant and voice is increasingly becoming commoditized as there are fewer factors differentiating the services offered by the different operators in our markets. 9 Table of Contents As new competitors enter our markets, and price and product competition intensifies, the risk exists that our customers may move to another mobile telephone operator, especially as the majority of our customers are using a pre-paid model which allows them to freely move to a competitor at any time. This may result in a decline of our revenues, which would negatively affect our results of operations. The emergence of new entrants with VOIP offerings for both voice and instant messaging, and convergence of social and search products and services with the mobile sphere further increases competitive risks. Any failure by us to compete, or aggressive competitive behavior by our competitors in pricing their services or acquiring new customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and overall results of operations. The mobile telephony market is heavily regulated and taxed. The licensing, construction, ownership and operation of mobile telephone networks, and the grant, maintenance and renewal of mobile telephone licenses, as well as radio frequency allocations and interconnection arrangements, are regulated by national, state, regional or local governmental authorities in the markets in which we operate. In addition, such matters and certain other aspects of mobile telephone operations, including rates charged to customers and resale of mobile telephone services, and user registrations may be subject to public utility regulation in each market. Our operations also typically require government permits, including permits for the construction and operation of cell sites. While we do not believe that compliance with these permit requirements has a material adverse effect on our Company, we may become subject to claims or regulatory actions relating to past or future non-compliance with permit requirements, and change in the regulation of our activities, such as increased or decreased regulation affecting prices or requirements for increased capital investments, may materially adversely affect us. In recent years budgetary pressure from many governments due to economic downturn has resulted in increased taxation. Most of the countries in which we operate do not have universal service obligations. If such obligations were introduced the profitability of our operations may be negatively impacted. The purpose of universal service is to provide access to persons in non-urban and isolated areas to telephone and other telecommunications services by infrastructure build-out through subsidies. The goal of universal service is to promote the availability of quality services at fair, reasonable and affordable rates in all areas of a country, to increase access to advanced telecommunications services, and to enhance the availability of such services to all consumers, including those in isolated rural areas, at rates that are reasonably comparable to those charged in urban areas. There is a telecommunications divide in all of the countries in which we operate in relation to access to telecommunications services (mobile, internet access, and higher bandwidth telecommunication services) between urban and rural areas. When such services are available, they are usually at significantly higher cost to the customer than in urban areas due to lower population density in rural areas that are often hard to reach due to lack of basic infrastructure, in particular roads and electricity. For example, Bolivia has introduced a universal service obligation in its New Telecommunications Law of 2011 to be funded by telecommunications operators paying part of their revenue into the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). We believe that universal service obligations are a risk in the telecommunications industry and expect more of the countries in which we operate to introduce such obligations in the future. We believe this may have a negative impact on our profitability if it were to grow. 10 Table of Contents We face substantial competition for obtaining, funding and renewing mobile telephone licenses. In each market or potential market we face competition for licenses from major international telecommunications companies as well as from local or regional competitors. While we try to minimize the amounts we pay for mobile licenses, worldwide competition for the granting or renewal of licenses is increasingly intense. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing mobile telephone licenses or, if licenses are awarded, in obtaining those licenses on terms acceptable to us. If we obtain further licenses or renew existing ones, we may need to seek future funding through additional borrowings or equity offerings, and we may not obtain such funding on satisfactory terms or at all. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change, which could render our products obsolete and cause us to incur substantial costs to replace our products. Fixed network and other system equipment used in the mobile telephone industry have a limited life and must be replaced frequently due to damage or as a result of ordinary wear and tear. In addition, expansion of existing networks may be required to remain competitive. Our networks are based on the GSM standard. In our Latin American markets, Mauritius, Rwanda, Ghana and Tanzania, we have both GSM and 3G networks. The GSM standard has been most appropriate for our markets because it has the greatest availability of handsets with strong functionality and has relatively low repair and maintenance costs. New technologies are being developed and, or upgraded such as fourth generation systems, including WiMAX and LTE (Long Term Evolution) and beyond LTE under research and development. Our equipment may need to be replaced or upgraded or a mobile telephone network may need to be rebuilt in whole or in part, at substantial cost, to remain competitive. Unforeseeable technological developments may also render our services unpopular with customers or obsolete. If our equipment or systems become obsolete, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. LTE, a standard for 4G is currently under implementation in some countries and we may have to invest a significant amount of money to follow competition and to secure our competitiveness with this technology. Demand for spectrum, and governments seeking increases in revenue may result in high acquisition costs which would impact return on invested capital. As competition intensifies and governments seek ways in which to develop additional revenue, the cost of acquiring spectrum, including, but not limited to 4G may increase. In 2011 we spent approximately $44 million on acquisition of Spectrum (mainly in Colombia) and we expect to purchase significantly more spectrum in the next few years. Uncertainty regarding the cost of spectrum may impact our profitability and return on invested capital. The mobile telephony sector may be forced to open up access to its spectrum which may create further competition. In line with trends in the U.S. and European Union, where spectrum could be opened to other commercial uses, such as 3G or LTE, and/or new spectrum is freed such as the 700, 2100 and 2600 MHz band, new competitors may be given access to our markets. Although we do not believe such changes will occur in our markets in near future, we believe these developments are likely to influence telecom regulatory trends in other parts of the world. If such trends become law in our markets, our competitive position in the relevant countries may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully develop and operate our networks and distribution we will be unable to expand our customer base and will lose market share and revenues. Our ability to increase or maintain our market share and revenues is dependent on the success of expansion and management of our networks and distribution. The build-out of our networks and distribution is subject to risks and uncertainties which may delay the introduction of service and increase the cost of network construction. Such uncertainties may include natural disasters, the risk of hurricanes, volcanic activity and earthquakes in Central America, flooding in low-lying areas in Bolivia and Paraguay, and landslides in Colombia. Other risks include sabotage and theft, which is an ongoing risk particularly in DRC and in Central America. To the extent we fail to expand our network and distribution capabilities on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in expanding our customer base. In addition, our ability to operate successfully is dependent upon our ability to deploy sufficient resources and operate our networks. The failure or breakdown of key components of our networks, including hardware and software, may have a material negative effect on the results of our operations. Furthermore, we depend upon a small number of major suppliers for essential hardware, software and services, mainly network infrastructure and mobile devices. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. We notice an increased concentration in the industry of mobile telephone suppliers which may put us at a disadvantage as we remain a small player in the industry. Transferring the ownership and control of our passive infrastructure could adversely impact the availability and quality of service we can offer to our customers. We entered into four transactions in 2010 and 2011 whereby we have sold and leased back a significant amount of our passive infrastructure (towers) in Africa and in Colombia. Through these transactions Millicom is transferring control of the passive infrastructure which could potentially impact the quality of service we offer to our customers if the service providers cannot meet contractual obligations and are unable to implement remedial actions in a timely manner. Rapid growth and expansion may cause us difficulty in obtaining adequate managerial and operational resources and restrict our ability to successfully expand our operations. Our operating results depend, in a significant part, upon the continued contributions of key senior management and technical personnel. Management of growth will require, among other things: •stringent control of network build-out and other costs; •excellence in sales, marketing and distribution; •continued innovative product development and deployment; •continued development of financial and management controls and information technology systems; •implementation and operation of adequate and effective internal controls; •hiring and training of new personnel; and •coordination among our logistical, technical, accounting, legal and finance personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to attract, develop, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Competition for personnel in our markets is intense due to scarcity of qualified individuals in particular in Africa. Our failure to successfully manage our growth and personnel needs would have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. We also need 12 Table of Contents increasingly new competencies for the new categories we enter into, including media for entertainment and banking for mobile financial services. In many cases in Africa, we must use higher cost expatriate personnel due to lack of local technical expertise. We are developing local expertise in-house but it may take time for them to become fully operational. Future growth will depend upon our ability to innovate and develop new products. Voice and SMS (82.5% of our revenues) are increasingly commoditized and offer less growth opportunities. Our future growth therefore relies on our ability to develop our business in new areas which require different skills and knowledge and which offer different risk profiles. We expect that a large part of our future growth will come from products and service innovation. If we are unable to find new products and services that are attractive for our customers our future growth could be adversely affected. This could also jeopardize the sustainability of our existing business as customers could switch to other operators if they offer better new services. Certain new mobile products and services are complex, require more expensive handsets and increase our exposure to fraud, money laundering, and reputational risk. Certain new products and services, such as mobile financial services, are complex and involve new distribution channels, and/or new regulatory and compliance requirements. Some of these new products may involve cash handling exposing us to risk of fraud and money laundering and potential reputational damage if these were to occur. Consumers may need a 3G handset to access some of our new products. While declining over time, the current cost of 3G handsets with entry level average around US$120 is still out of reach of many of the consumers in our markets and we need to partially subsidize the cost of the handsets. These handset subsidies may put pressure on our profitability and the need for these devices may threaten our affordability based business model. Our operations are dependent upon interconnection agreements and transmission and leased lines. Our operations are dependent upon access to networks not controlled by us, primarily fixed line networks controlled by current or former government owned public telecommunications operators or competing mobile telephone operators. Our financial results are affected by the cost to secure interconnection through transmission and leased lines. We may not be able to maintain interconnection or leased line agreements on appropriate terms to maintain or grow our business. A number of regulators have, or are expected, to reduce interconnection rates. As we are often one of the largest suppliers of telephone services in the countries in which we operate, this could reduce our revenue. For example, in 2010 the regulator in El Salvador reduced mobile terminated call interconnection rates by 70% and in Colombia expected to be by more than 20% in 2012. As our customer base in El Salvador receives significantly more calls from other networks than it makes, the change in the interconnect rate has a significant impact on the revenues and profitability. Concerns about actual or perceived health risks relating to electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions, as well as extensive publicity or possible subsequent litigation, may have a negative effect on the market price of our shares, our financial position or the results of our operations. Media and other reports have suggested that electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions from mobile telephone handsets and base stations may cause health problems, including cancer. There is also concern that emissions may interfere with the operation of certain electronic equipment, including aircraft guidance systems, automobile braking and steering systems (e.g. GPS), or civil and military radars. Although we expect that the actual or perceived risks relating to mobile communications devices 13 Table of Contents and base stations, or press reports about these risks will not adversely impact our business, its actual impact is difficult to estimate. It may have the effect of reducing our customer growth rate, customer base, customer use rates, or increasing costs related to customer or third party claims, which could have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. If a link between electromagnetic or radio frequency emissions and adverse health concerns is demonstrated, government authorities are likely to increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations. Mobile telephone operators and handset manufacturers may be held liable for all or part of the costs or damages associated with these concerns. Any such regulations, or any litigation brought by potential victims, could also have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. General Risks Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and we may need to resort to additional external financing. Our ability to generate cash is dependent on our future operating and financial performance. This will be impacted by our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, and technical elements and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash, we may, among other things, need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing, delay capital expenditure or sell assets. We may have difficulty to access financial markets as we do not have investment grade rated credit. In addition, as a consequence of the financial crisis many banks have refocused on domestic markets and tightened lending criteria. Our headquarters are in Luxembourg, a country with few national banks. Restrictions in our ability to raise or generate cash could impact the operating performance of our business. High levels of penetration of mobile phone services in some of our markets could inhibit future growth. Most of the Latin American markets where we operate have mobile phone penetration levels close to 100% with the exception of Bolivia and to a lesser extent Guatemala. Although there are opportunities for further growth, high penetration rates in Latin America could lead to a slowdown in growth in those markets. Likewise, urban areas in the markets where we operate in Africa have a high penetration rate for mobile phones and opportunities for increasing the penetration rates in our African markets are largely in rural areas where Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is lower and costs are higher, which could threaten our future growth and profitability. The level, structure and obligations connected with our debt may have an adverse effect on our financial health. As of December 31, 2011, Millicom's total consolidated indebtedness was $2.4 billion, representing our share of the indebtedness of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, from which corporate guarantees issued by the Company secured $0.7 billion of the indebtedness. The Group's share of total debt and financing secured by either pledged assets, pledged deposits issued to cover letters of credit or guarantees issued by the Company was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. If we substantially increase our level of indebtedness, it may have significant negative consequences for us. For example, it may: •require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to fund debt payments, thereby reducing availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditure and for other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions or loss of significant operations; 14 Table of Contents •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry or markets in which we operate; •limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital, or increase the cost of such funding; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; •reduce our ability to pay dividends and prevent us from complying with our dividend policy; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who might have less debt. Our ability to receive funds from and to exercise management control over some of our operations is dependent upon the consent of shareholders who are not under our control. Disagreements or unfavorable terms in agreements governing our joint ventures may adversely affect our operations. In Guatemala and Mauritius our local partners have sufficient rights to prevent us from having full control. Our ability to withdraw funds, including dividends, from these operations and to exercise management control over our partners may depend on consent of the other participants. While the precise terms of the arrangements vary, our operations may be negatively affected in the event of disagreements with our partners. We rely upon dividends and other payments from our operations to fund the Company's obligations and commitments. Our operating companies are legally separate and distinct from the Company and have no obligation to pay amounts due with respect to the Company's obligations and commitments or to make funds available for such payments. Our local operations do not guarantee the Company's obligations or commitments. The ability of our operations to make such payments to the Company is subject to, among other things, the availability of funds, agreement of our partners, the terms of each operation's indebtedness and local law. The majority of our local operations have entered into financing facilities, which may be guaranteed by the Company, many of which restrict the payment of dividends by those operations to the Company. Claims of creditors of our operations, including trade creditors, will generally have priority over our claims. Certain insiders own significant amounts of our shares, giving them substantial management influence. At December 31, 2011, Investment AB Kinnevik, our largest shareholder, owned 37,835,438 shares in Millicom, representing approximately 36% of voting shares on that date, and the Stenbeck Family (who control Kinnevik) own an additional 874,542 shares. Kinnevik and its affiliates, having a significant ownership in Millicom, could have and exert significant influence over the strategic, operating and financial policies of Millicom. The influence that they have may potentially conflict with the Company's interests. Some of our directors hold positions with Investment AB Kinnevik ("Kinnevik"), which may present conflicts that may be resolved in a manner not consistent with your interests. Two Millicom board members hold executive and/or director positions with Kinnevik. Such positions may create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when decisions of the Board of Directors may have different implications for the Company or Kinnevik. There is a risk that these conflicts may ultimately be resolved in a manner not consistent with your interests. The ability of investors to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws may be limited. We are incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (European Union). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Most or a substantial portion of our assets and those of most of our directors and executive officers are located 15 Table of Contents outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in our securities to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or upon us or to enforce in U.S. courts or outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Allen & Overy that the United States and Luxembourg do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon United States federal securities laws, is not enforceable in Luxembourg. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in Luxembourg, the party may submit the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States to a Luxembourg court for the purpose of recognition by such court and enforcement in Luxembourg. A judgment by a federal or state court of the United States against us will be regarded by a Luxembourg court only as evidence of the outcome of the dispute to which such judgment relates, and a Luxembourg court may choose to rehear the dispute. We intend to terminate the registration of our common shares under the Exchange Act once the applicable conditions are met and will no longer file reports with the SEC. We intend to terminate the registration of our common shares under the Exchange Act once the applicable conditions are met. If all conditions are met, we will be able, and intend, to terminate the registration of our common shares under the Exchange Act. Once registration under the Exchange Act has been terminated, we will no longer be subject to the disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act and will not be required to file annual reports on Form 20-F and furnish reports on Form 6-K. 