Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common 40 stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations that we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders from, and other commitments we have made to, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. As discussed above under "Corporate Developments and Overview," we have entered into a Stipulation and Consent to the issuance of Order to Cease and Desist with the Office of Thrift Supervision. Under the terms of the Office of Thrift Supervision orders, the Savings Bank and the Company, without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision, may not: · Increase assets during any quarter; · Pay dividends; · Increase brokered deposits; · Repurchase shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock; and · Issue any debt securities or incur any debt (other than that incurred in the normal course of business). Other material provisions of the order require the Savings Bank and the Company to: · develop a business plan for enhancing, measuring and maintaining profitability, increasing earnings, improving liquidity and maintaining capital levels, acceptable to the Office of Thrift Supervision; · ensure the Savings Bank’s compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and agency guidelines, including the terms of the order; · not appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without notifying the Office of Thrift Supervision; · not enter into, renew, extend or revise any compensation or benefit agreements for directors or senior executive officers; · not make any indemnification, severance or golden parachute payments; · enhance its asset classification policy; · provide progress reports to the Office of Thrift Supervision regarding certain classified assets; · submit a comprehensive plan for reducing classified assets; 41 · develop a plan to reduce its concentration in certain loans contained in the loan portfolio and that addresses the assessment, monitoring and control of the risks association with the commercial real estate portfolio; · not enter into any arrangement or contract with a third party service provider that is significant to the overall operation or financial of the Savings Bank, or that is outside the normal course of business; and · prepare and submit progress reports to the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Office of Thrift Supervision orders will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the Office of Thrift Supervision. If the Office of Thrift Supervision determines that we are not in compliance with the orders, it would have available various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to remove officers and/or directors, to assess civil monetary penalties or to enforce the orders through court proceedings. Management has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the orders and the Savings Bank and the Company believes that they are in substantial compliance with the requirements set forth in the orders, as of the date of this Form 10-K. Compliance with the orders, however, is subject to a determination by the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Office of Thrift Supervision may determine, in its sole discretion, that we have not addressed the issues raised by the orders satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions taken by it. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2010, $60.2 million, or 54.2% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to four-family residential real estate loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans held for investment and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, a lack of growth and/or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate residential mortgage loans (including second mortgage loans), construction loans, commercial mortgage and land loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans primarily within our market area. Generally, 42 the types of loans other than residential mortgage loans have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. We had $40.4 million or 36.4% of our total loan portfolio outstanding in these higher risk loans at June 30, 2010. We have had a significant increase in these types of loans since 1999, when we began to diversify the loan portfolio in order to mitigate other types of risk, such as interest-rate risk. While diversification into construction, commercial real estate and land, commercial business, and consumer loans may have reduced interest-rate risk as a result of their typically shorter terms and, in most cases, adjustable nature of their interest rates, they do expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. The collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons and as discussed in detail under A-- Lending Activities”: · Commercial Real Estate and Land Loans. Commercial real estate and land loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover borrowers' operating expenses, as well as, debt service. Loans on land under development or held for future use also pose additional risk because of a lack of income produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. The repayment of loans secured by farm properties is dependent upon the success of farming operations, which is contingent on many factors outside the control of either the borrowers or us. These factors include adverse weather conditions, fluctuating market prices of both final product and production costs, factors affecting the physical condition of livestock and government regulations. · Commercial Business Loans. Repayment of these loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's businesses. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as vehicle loans, mobile home loans and personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. · Construction Loans. Construction lending in lending involves the inherent difficulties of estimating the cost of the project and estimating a property's value at completion of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may need to advance funds beyond the original loan amount in order to complete the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; 43 · the duration of the loan; · the credit history of a particular borrower; and · changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was $2.5 million or 2.28% of gross loans held for investment and 64.4% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2010. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $852,000 compared to $5.3 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Our results of operations for fiscal 2009 were severely impacted by the $5.3 million provision for loan losses. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. During these last two fiscal years, we experienced increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy; however, more recently adverse conditions in the general economy have become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of loan delinquencies 44 and non-performing loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market have been a contributing factor to the increase in delinquencies and non-performing loans. At June 30, 2010, our total non-performing loans had increased to $3.9 million, or 3.5% of total loans, compared to $3.3 million, or 2.4% of total loans, at June 30, 2009. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we will continue to experience significantly higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the eight counties of Wright, Webster, Douglas, Christian, Ozark, Stone, Taney and Greene in the State of Missouri, which we consider to be our primary market area. In addition to loans within our primary market area, we also have originated loans in 11 other states. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; · the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and · the price of our common stock may decrease. We may have continuing losses and low earnings. We have had losses and reduced net income in recent years. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2006, we had net losses of $1.5 million, $4.0 million and $173,000, respectively. Net income was $363,000 and $272,000, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Similarly, our return on average assets was 0.15% and 0.09% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 and our return on average equity was 1.34% and 0.77% for the same years. Our returns on average assets and average equity were negative for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2006, as we incurred net losses for those years. We continue to face considerable challenges that will hinder our ability to improve our earnings significantly. These challenges include the restriction on our operations under the Cease and Desist Orders with the Office of Thrift Supervision, the increased level of our problem loans, and the pressure on our interest rate spread. Our interest 45 rate spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, has fluctuated during the past three years from a low of 2.71% for the year ended June 30, 2007 to 3.11% for the year ended June 30, 2010. While we have identified and are implementing various strategic initiatives to improve earnings and to overcome these operating and other challenges, our strategic initiatives might not succeed in increasing our net income. We have had a significant amount of problem loans and related losses. Between 1999 and 2008, the Savings Bank focused on increasing our commercial business loan and commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, as a result, we recognized substantial write-offs in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, 2006 and 2005. Our ratio of non-performing assets to total assets increased from 0.59% at June 30, 2006 to 1.47% at June 30, 2007, to 1.56% at June 30, 2008, to 5.23% at June 30, 2009 and to 6.19% at June 30, 2010. Our total non-accruing loans increased from $841,000 at June 30, 2006 to $2.9 million at June 30, 2007, decreased to $2.3 million at June 30, 2008, increased to $3.0 million at June 30, 2009 and increased to $3.9 million at June 30, 2010. The increase in non-performing loans between June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2010 was primarily attributable to the impact of deteriorating economic conditions on borrowers, both commercial and consumer, during that time period. At June 30, 2010, classified assets were $11.6 million, a decrease from $12.0 million at June 30, 2009. We also indentified an additional $1.6 million of loans at June 30, 2010 as Special Mention. These items could increase our classified assets if there was further deterioration in their financial condition. These loans include $623,000, $70,000, $909,000 of commercial real estate, land and commercial non-real estate loans, respectively. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact stockholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. 46 Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. If the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines or other wholesale funding sources. We are dependent on key members of our senior management team, which has changed significantly in the past five years. We are dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key management personnel. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. We have had four different Presidents and Chief Executive Officers since 2003. Our current President was appointed in November 2008 and has only been employed by the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2007. In addition, our current Chief Executive Officer has only served in that position since November 2008; however, he has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2005. Finally, our Chief Financial Officer has only been with the Company and the Savings Bank since November 2006, and many of our other key members of senior management have been with the Savings Bank for just over three years. While we believe we have qualified individuals in place to succeed the individuals who have left the Savings Bank, these individuals will need to develop a cohesive and unified senior management team. Any additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2010 and 2009 was $603,000 and $256,000, respectively. 47 In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments of up to five basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will hurt our earnings. Additionally, in November 2009, the FDIC required financial institutions to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The Savings Bank prepaid $1.6 million in December 2009 and as of June 30, 2010, the outstanding balance, after estimated accruals, was $1.2 million. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. If we are required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the Office of Thrift Supervision, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “We are subject to the restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders from, and other commitments we have made to, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties.” Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to 48 our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family residential loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower’s payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four single-family mortgage loans. A federal rule which took effect July 6, 2010, prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This recent federal rule is likely to adversely affect the results of our operations by reducing the amount of our non-interest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse impact on us. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act which, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd Frank-Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be eliminated and existing state savings associations, including the Savings Bank, will be subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC. Federal savings associations will be subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, which will have the authority to promulgate new regulations governing the Company that will impose additional capital requirements and may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. These transfers of regulatory authority will occur on July 21, 2011, unless extended for up to an additional six months. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this bureau could result in new regulatory 49 requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. One year after the date of its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on our competitors’ responses, this change could materially increase our interest expense. Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are described in this report under “Item 1. Business — Regulation of First Home.” Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations is expected to result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We have suspended our regular cash dividend. We have not paid a regular cash dividend since March 2007, when our board of directors determined to suspend our regular cash dividend in response to our operating performance. A special dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock was declared by the board of directors at its regular meeting in July 2008. Any dividends we pay in the future will depend on a number of factors, including our capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to generate sufficient earnings to warrant the payment of dividends, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory limitations and general economic conditions. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may depend, in part, on our receipt of dividends from the Savings Bank because the Company has minimal income sources beyond the earnings from the Savings Bank. Under the Cease and Desist Orders currently in place, both the Company and the Savings Bank must request permission from the Office of Thrift Supervision at least 30 days in advance of the proposed dividend payment and obtain a non-objection letter from the Office of Thrift Supervision. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 50 We rely on effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the Company must maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders, and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. Item 