ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors about us. These may not be the only risks we face. Additionally, we may face risks that we do not deem to be material at the time but which may become material in the future. Certain statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See item 7 - - Managements' Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Forward-Looking Statements." An increase in raw material costs may have an adverse effect on us. Because the cost of chemicals is the largest single component of our cost of goods sold, the price and availability of the chemicals we purchase significantly affects our business. In 2006, our cost of raw materials increased 35%, on average, over 2005. The two principal chemicals used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam are TDI and polyol. The prices of TDI and polyol are influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and oil and natural gas prices. Specifically, since the primary chemicals used to create TDI and polyol are all oil-based derivatives, fluctuating oil and energy costs, like those experienced in the last few years, could adversely affect our manufacturing costs. We may not be able to fully offset raw material price increases through selling price increases and manufacturing process efficiencies. To the extent we are unable to so offset any raw material price increases, our business may be adversely affected. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $288.7 million of U.S. NOL carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC Section 382"), however, limits a corporation's utilization of NOL carryforwards following an IRC Section 382 ownership change. We believe that we have not undergone an IRC Section 382 ownership change since June 2001 that limited our future NOL utilization to approximately $21.0 million per year. We currently have approximately $57.0 million of our U.S. NOLs subject to such limitation. The balance of approximately $231.7 million of NOLs are currently not subject to limitation on their utilization. While we do not believe that we have had an additional ownership change under IRC Section 382 at the Effective Date of the Plan, we cannot provide assurance that there has been no such ownership change. If it were determined that there was an IRC Section 382 ownership change at or near the Effective Date of the Plan, we may be required to pay cash for income tax obligations prior to the full utilization of available NOLs. We do not believe that the amount of any limitation would have a significant impact on our cash flows or financial position. 8 We depend on a limited number of suppliers of TDI and polyol. A disruption in our ability to obtain TDI and polyol that continues for a significant period of time could cause us to suspend all or a portion of our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and operations. Two examples of such disruptions were Hurricanes Rita and Katrina in 2005. Major customers' financial condition and supply decisions may have a material effect on us. Our financial performance is directly tied to the financial condition of our customers and our customers' decisions concerning suppliers. This is especially so because a small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales. Net sales to our five largest customers together accounted for approximately 30.2% of our net sales in 2006. Net sales to Johnson Controls, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 9.3% of our net sales in 2006. Thus, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the amount purchased by, these major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The polyurethane foam business has excess capacity and is somewhat cyclical. We are subject to excess capacity in the polyurethane foam industry and to the cyclical nature of the automotive, housing, technology, and furniture and bedding industries. A protracted downturn in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, the problems facing the North American automotive industry, which is our second-largest revenue source, have negatively impacted our automotive business, and may negatively impact our financial condition in the future. Certain disputed unliquidated or contingent claims against us, including claims in certain legal proceedings, remain outstanding. A number of disputed unliquidated or contingent claims were filed against us in our bankruptcy proceedings. To the extent we are required to satisfy any of these claims in the future, we intend to do so through insurance, where available. However, we cannot assure you that we will have the necessary insurance or that any insurance we may have will be sufficient for this purpose. Among these disputed claims are certain disputes to which Foamex L.P. is a party relating to a fire at a nightclub in West Warwick, Rhode Island in February 2003. The fire destroyed the nightclub, killing 100 persons and injuring over 100 others. Foamex L.P. and several of its affiliates are named as defendants, along with more than 50 other defendants, in certain litigation concerning the fire. The ensuing litigation, comprising numerous cases, has been consolidated in a single case, Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 04-312L (the "Litigation"), before the United States District Court for the District of Rhode Island. Plaintiffs have also filed proofs of claim in our bankruptcy case. Foamex L.P. is named in these cases solely as an alleged successor to General Foam Corporation ("GFC"), a defendant in the Litigation. In addition to other foam manufacturing defendants in the Litigation, GFC is alleged to have manufactured and sold polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island. The foam fabricator is alleged to have then sold the foam at issue to the nightclub. The foam was among other building materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were set off inside the nightclub. The Litigation is in its early stages. We believe that there are multiple defenses to both (i) the claims against GFC and (ii) the successor claim against Foamex L.P. We intend to continue vigorously defending Foamex L.P. in the Litigation. We also believe that, if GFC is held liable for monetary damages in the Litigation, GFC is unable to satisfy that obligation and Foamex L.P. is found to have liability as a successor to GFC, there is likely to be adequate insurance available to Foamex L.P. to cover such liability. However, we cannot assure you that the defenses available to GFC or Foamex L.P. as an alleged successor will prevail. In addition, we cannot assure you that, if GFC is held liable for monetary damages in the Litigation, GFC will be able to satisfy that obligation through its insurance or assets or that any liability insurance available to Foamex L.P. will be sufficient to cover any potential liability to Foamex L.P., if Foamex L.P. were to be found to be a successor to GFC. 9 We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our real properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances, the discharge or emission of materials into the environment and the remediation of environmental contamination. We are remediating soil and groundwater contamination at five of our current and former locations. We are also designated as a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or by state environmental agencies, at one site. If there are additional sites or our estimates of our potential environmental liabilities are incorrect, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 