ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect the Company's future operating results. Certain characteristics and dynamics of the Company's business and of financial markets generally create risks to the Company's long-term success and to predictable quarterly results. Other factors are included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These risks include: o Effect on Profitability. The Company reported a loss for the years 2004 and 2005 and at December 31, 2005, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $6,438,000. There can be no assurance that the Company will generate profits in the short or long term. o Liquidity; Access to Capital. Management believes that its current cash balances, operations, and newly negotiated bank lines of credit will provide adequate liquidity to meet the Company's planned capital and operating requirements for normal operations and capital expenditures through the 2006 calendar year. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements (Item 15) for a description of the credit facility. The Company is required to pay $2.5 million in principal on its outstanding loans in 2006 which is greater than the cash generated from operations in 2005. If the Company's operations do not provide cash sufficient to fund its operations and make required debt payments; the Company may be required to seek outside financing and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, any future equity financing or convertible debt financing could cause the Company's stockholders to incur dilution in net tangible book value per share of the Company's Common Stock. o Acquisitions; Potential Goodwill Impairment. The Company has acquired four companies since 2003, and is in the process of integrating these acquisitions onto one financial platform. Certain other synergies have been identified such as selling and distribution opportunities which should increase sales and reduce costs. There are no guarantees that any of these synergies will be properly completed or improve the profitability of the Company. In addition, the Company has recorded net intangible assets of $11.1 million and goodwill of $12.0 million as part of the acquisitions. Some of these intangible assets are amortized over a certain amount of time. If these assets become impaired, the assets will be expensed in the periods they become impaired which will impact profitability. In the fourth quarter 2005, Casual Gourmet saw a significant reduction in its sales to its two largest customers. If revenues to these two customers do not return to historical levels, the Company may need to make a charge against earnings in order to record the impairment of the goodwill and or intangible assets that have previously been recorded. o Hiring and Retention of Key Personnel. The success of the Company depends on its ability to retain key executives, and to motivate and retain other key employees and officers. CEO James Williams joined the Company in October 2002 and CFO Scott Wheeler joined the Company in April 2003. The Company currently has a key man insurance policy with a face amount of $500,000 for Mr. Williams. Part of the Company's acquisition strategy is to maintain the current management of each acquired company and motivate them appropriately to help garner synergies and grow their respective companies. The management of CIBO, Casual Gourmet, and Sonoma Foods have employment contracts to help insure the growth of these acquisitions. There can be no assurance that key management will remain stable; significant management turnover could disrupt the Company's operations with consequent adverse effect on the business. o Material Weakness in Internal Controls: The Company's management has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2005. Based on that evaluation, the Company has concluded that, because of a material weakness in internal control, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were not fully effective as of December 31, 2005. If this weakness cannot be rectified, financial statement accuracy may be at risk. See Item 9A, which is incorporated here by reference. o Impact of Inflation. The increased cost of dairy ingredients had a material inflationary impact on the Company's operations during 2005. Freight rate increases related to fuel surcharges have impacted the Company's financial performance as it ships and sources raw ingredients from across the country. Medical benefits continued to increase at rates higher than the consumer price index. Energy costs such as electricity and natural gas have increased significantly and the Company is projecting additional increases over the next several months. Increases in labor, employee benefits, freight, ingredients and packaging, rents and other operating expenses have adversely affected the Company's profitability and may continue to impact the Company in future periods. The Company cannot predict whether such increases will occur in the future or their magnitude if they do occur. Also, the Company cannot predict if it can pass these higher costs along to its customers. o Risks Inherent in Food Production. The Company faces all of the risks inherent in the production and distribution of refrigerated food products, including contamination, adulteration, spoilage, and the associated risks of product liability litigation, which may occur even with an isolated event. Although the Company has modern production facilities, and has 9 obtained USDA approval for them, and employs what it believes are the necessary processes and equipment in order to insure food safety, there can be no assurance that the Company's procedures will be adequate to prevent the occurrence of such events. o Dependence on Major Customers. During 2005, two of the Company's customers, Costco and Wal-Mart (including its subsidiary, Sam's Club), accounted for 45% and 17%, respectively, of the Company's total revenues. The Company currently sells its products to eight separate US Costco regions and its international regions which currently make purchasing decisions independently of one another. These regions re-evaluate, on a regular basis, the products carried in their stores. There can be no assurance that these Costco regions will continue to offer the Company's products in the future or continue to allocate Monterey Pasta the same amount of shelf space. There can be no assurance that Sam's Club will continue to carry the Company's products. Loss of either of these customers, Costco or Sam's Club, or a significant reduction in sales to either, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, liberalized pricing or allowance terms would create downward pressure on gross margins. o Diversification of Product Line. Over the last three years, the Company has acquired four new subsidiaries. A major reason for the acquisitions is the diversification of the Company's gourmet food product line. Each acquisition brings new product lines, management talents and skills, and customers. There can be assurances that the acquisition strategy will be profitable in the near or long term. o Changing Consumer Preferences. Consumer preferences change, sometimes quickly, and the success of the Company's food products depends on the Company's ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to their preferences. The Company introduces new products and improved products, and incurs development and marketing costs associated with new products. If the Company's products fail to meet consumer preferences, then the Company's strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. Recent attention to low carbohydrate diets by certain segments of the U.S. population has affected the consumption of pasta, and pasta sales have decline as a percentage of grocery sales in the U.S. As American consumers seek new ways to reduce their intake of carbohydrates, Monterey Gourmet Foods has developed products to address these changing preferences. Towards the end of 2004, the low-carbohydrate diet trend decreased and the trend has been towards whole grains and less refined products. The Company has spent resources to develop whole wheat pasta products that meet this new trend. However, there can be no assurance that these new products will meet the changing demands of the consumer. o Seasonality and Quarterly Results. The Company's grocery and club store accounts are expected to experience seasonal fluctuations to some extent with the corresponding impact upon quarterly results. o Competition. The Company's business is dominated by several very large competitors, who have significantly greater resources than the Company; such competitors can outspend the Company and negatively affect the Company's market share and results of operations. o Dependence on Common Carriers. The Company also is dependent on common carriers to distribute its products. Any disruption in its distribution system or increase in the costs thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business. o California Energy Supply and Pricing. Because the majority of the Company's operations are in California, its operating costs are affected by regional increases in electricity and natural gas prices. As a result, the Company's operating results have been affected by the increased cost of energy and in addition, natural disasters, such as hurricane Katrina, can impact the availability and pricing of energy. o Capacity. The two plants in Salinas, California are currently operating below planned capacity, which increases costs of producing products in these plants. If sales of products produced at these plants do not increase or additional costs cannot be reduced, these products will remain unprofitable which will impact future earnings of the Company. In response to this lower than required sales volume out of these plants the Company announced a plan to close the smaller of these two operating plants. The Company will incur costs to close the plant and move equipment to other locations. o Volatility of Stock Price. The market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated substantially since the initial public offering of the Company's common stock in December 1993. Such volatility may, in part, be attributable to the Company's operating results or to changes in the direction of the Company's expansion efforts. In addition, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the food industry, natural disasters or other developments affecting the Company or its competitors could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies, including the Company, for reasons sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Moreover, any announced shortfall in the Company's net sales or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts or the market could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of the Company's common stock in any given 10 period. Additionally, the Company may not learn of such shortfalls until late in the fiscal quarter, shortly before operating results are due to be announced. The announcement, together or in succession, of such a shortfall and of lower than expected quarterly operating results, could result in an even more immediate and significant adverse impact on the trading price of the Company's common stock upon announcement of the shortfall or quarterly operating results. o Marketing and Sales Risks. The future success of the Company will depend on a number of factors, including whether grocery and club store chains will continue to expand the number of their individual stores offering the Company's products and whether allowances and other incentives will expand retail distribution. Expansion into new markets increases the risk of significant product returns resulting from the Company's supply of slower selling items to its customers. In addition, grocery and club store chains continually re-evaluate the products carried in their stores and no assurances can be given that the chains currently offering the Company's products will continue to do so in the future, either in the same measure or at all. Should these channels choose to reduce or eliminate products, the Company could experience a significant reduction in its product sales. The Company remains dependent on the use of slotting allowances and other incentives to expand retail distribution. o Compliance with laws applicable to its business. The company's facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. The company's failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of its products, and negative publicity. o Sarbanes Oxley Act: The Company is also subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and recently passed laws regarding publicly traded companies including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The Company is not an accelerated filer and therefore is not required to comply with certain sections of this Act. However, the Company has spent some resources complying with Section 404 of this Act and the Company believes that it will need to spend additional significant resources to become compliant with this Act. o Deductible Worker's Compensation Program. The Company's California and Oregon locations entered into a partially self-insured worker's compensation program for fiscal year 2003 and have continued the program into 2005. This program features a fixed annual payment, with a deductible on a per occurrence basis. The annual expense consists of a base fee paid to an insurance company to administer the program, direct cash expenses to pay for injuries, an estimate for potential injuries that may have occurred but have not been reported, an estimate by the insurance company of costs to close out each injury, and an estimate for injury development. The Company has been on this partially self-insured program for three years and therefore has limited history of claim resolution available to support the Company's specific actuarial projections. Therefore the Company is using published industry actuarial data from an insurance carrier and reviewing each claim individually to determine the amount of reserves that should be established. Management believes that its current safety program and its safety record will provide the foundation to enable the Company to realize the premium savings partially self-insured programs are designed to achieve; however, estimated reserves may vary from future cash outlays. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Inapplicable 