ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our future operating results. Certain characteristics and dynamics of our business and financial markets generally create risks to our long-term success and to predictable quarterly results. Other factors are noted in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” Section of this Report. These risks include: · Lack of Recent Profitability. We have reported losses for four of the last five years. The Sonoma Cheese products and the Further Processed Protein Products segments contributed significantly to the losses during these years. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $30.4 million. We have no assurance that we will generate profits in the short or long term. · Liquidity; Access to Capital. We believe that our current cash balance, and future operating projections will provide adequate liquidity to meet our planned capital and operating requirements for normal operations and planned capital expenditures through the 2009 calendar year without the need to access sources of credit available to us. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 15) for a description of the credit facility. We generated $3.3 million in cash from operating activities during 2008. In addition, we generated $4.2 million in cash from operating activities during 2007. However, we have no assurance that we will continue to generate cash in the future. If our operations do not provide cash sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements; we may be required to seek outside financing and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, if we were to seek future equity or convertible debt financing, the resulting dilution in net tangible book value per share of our Common Stock could generate opposition by our stockholders. · Impairment of Intangible Assets. During 2008 we impaired 100% of our goodwill. We still have $4.6 million of other intangible assets on our books along with other long-lived assets that were not impaired. We have no assurances that additional assets will not become impaired in the future. · Hiring and Retention of Key Personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain key executives, and to motivate and retain other key employees and officers. We have no assurance that key management will remain stable; significant turnover could disrupt our operations with consequent adverse effect on the business. · Internal Controls. We evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2008. We continue to improve our internal controls and procedures and we have concluded that as of December 31, 2008 our internal controls over financial reporting are adequate. (See Item 9A, which is incorporated here by reference.) For the calendar year 2009, our auditors must give attestation over our internal controls. If weaknesses are identified, financial statement accuracy may be at risk. We are required to publish an annual report by management assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and beginning with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 our registered public accounting firm must attest on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls. We believe that we will need to spend resources each year to remain compliant with this requirement and to prepare for our registered public accounting firm to give its attestation of management’s report. · Impact of Economic Conditions. Freight rate increases related to fuel surcharges continue to impact our financial performance as we ship product and source raw ingredients from across the country. Medical benefits continued to increase during 2008 at rates higher than the consumer price index. Increases in the costs of labor (including the minimum wage), employee benefits, freight, ingredients, commodities, packaging materials, rents and other operating expenses have adversely affected our profitability and may continue to impact our profitability in future periods. Recent deteriorations in the credit and other financial markets and the deterioration of national economic conditions could among other things: · Make it more difficult for us to finance growth · Cause consumers to purchase less expensive products and depress consumer demand generally · Impact the financial viability of our suppliers, customers, and insurers We cannot predict how these economic uncertainties will impact our business. · Risks Inherent in Food Production. We face all of the risks inherent in the production and distribution of refrigerated food products, including contamination, adulteration, spoilage, and the associated risks of product liability litigation, which may occur even with an isolated event. Although we have modern production facilities, have obtained USDA approval, organic certification for many products, and employ what we believe are the necessary processes and equipment in order to assure food safety, we have no assurance that our procedures will be adequate to prevent the occurrence of such events. · Lack of Preservatives. The majority of our products are preservative free; this enhances their flavors. However, the lack of preservatives also increases the risk of spoilage during the process of getting the product to our consumers. We have no assurance that our products will not spoil during distribution due to circumstances beyond our control. 10 · Dependence on Major Customers. During 2008, two of our customers, Costco and Wal-Mart (including its subsidiary, Sam’s Club), accounted for 55% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues. We currently sell our products to eight separate US Costco regions and its international regions which currently make purchasing decisions independently of one another. These regions re-evaluate, on a regular basis, the products carried in their stores. We have no assurance that these Costco regions will continue to offer our products in the future or continue to allocate Monterey Gourmet Foods the same amount of shelf space. Nor do we have assurance that Sam’s Club will continue to carry our products. Loss of either of these customers, Costco or Sam’s Club, or a significant reduction in sales to either, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Additionally, liberalized pricing or allowance terms implemented in order to meet these customers’ requirements would create downward pressure on gross margins. · Diversification of Product Line. Over the last five years, we acquired four new subsidiaries. A major reason for the acquisitions was to diversify our product line. In addition, each acquisition brought new management talents and skills, customs and traditions, and customers. Two of our acquisitions did not meet projected revenues for 2007 or 2008, and in December 2008 we announced that we would discontinue selling the unprofitable Casual Gourmet product line. We have no assurance as to the near or long term profitability of our acquisition strategy. · Changing Consumer Preferences. Consumer preferences change, sometimes quickly, and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to their preferences. We introduce new products and improved products, and incur development and marketing costs associated with new products. If our new products fail to satisfy consumer expectations, then our strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. · Seasonality and Quarterly Results. Our grocery and club store accounts are expected to experience seasonal fluctuations to some extent with the corresponding impact upon quarterly results. · Competition. Our business is dominated by several very large competitors some of which are international companies with significantly greater resources; the ability of such competitors to outspend us can negatively affect our market share and results of operations. · Dependence on Common Carriers. We are dependent on common carriers to distribute our products. Any disruption in our distribution system or increase in associated costs could have a material adverse impact on our business. · Energy Supply and Pricing. Because the majority of our operations are in California, our operating results have been affected by regional increases in electricity and natural gas prices. In addition, natural disasters could impact the availability and pricing of energy. · Capacity. Our plants in Salinas, California and Kent, Washington, are currently operating below planned capacity for certain products, which increases unit costs of production at the plants. If sales of products produced at these plants do not increase or additional costs cannot be reduced, these products will remain below targeted profitability with resulting impact on our future earnings. · Seattle Facility Move. In 2008, we relocated our Seattle, Washington production to a new facility in Kent, Washington. The Kent facility is larger than the Seattle facility and has taken significant financial and human resources to make the transition. We have no assurances that these resources will generate the anticipated profits of their operation in future years. · Volatility of Stock Price. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since the initial public offering in 1993. Such volatility may, in part, be attributable to our operating results or to changes in the direction of our expansion efforts. In addition, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the food industry, and natural disasters or other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies, including our company, for reasons sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Moreover, any announced shortfall in our net sales or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts or the market could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period. Additionally, we may not learn of such shortfalls until late in any fiscal quarter, shortly before operating results are due to be announced. The announcement, together or in succession, of such a shortfall and of lower than expected quarterly operating results, could result in an even more immediate and significant adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock upon announcement of the shortfall or quarterly operating results. 11 The current market price of our common stock is one of the key drivers which caused us to fail step one of our annual impairment test under SFAS 142. In addition, a NASDAQ rule requires the delisting of NASDAQ listed securities, such as our common stock, that consistently trade below $1.00 per share. NASDAQ currently has suspended operation of this rule until April 20, 2009. If our common stock continues to trade below the $1.00 per share limit and NASDAQ does not suspend this rule for an additional period, we may be subject to NASDAQ proceedings to delist the common stock. If this occurs, our stockholders would no longer be able to trade the common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, and transactions would have to be made in the over-the-counter market. · Marketing and Sales Risks. Our future success will depend on a number of factors, including whether grocery and club stores will continue to expand the number of their individual stores offering our products and whether allowances and other incentives will expand retail distribution. Expansion into new markets increases the risk of significant product returns resulting from supplying slower selling items to our customers. In addition, grocery and club store chains continually re-evaluate the products carried in their stores and we have no assurance that the chains currently offering our products will continue to do so in the future, either in the same measure or at all. Should these channels choose to reduce or eliminate products, we could experience a significant reduction in our product sales. We remain dependent on the use of slotting allowances and other incentives to expand retail distribution. · Compliance with Laws Applicable to our Business. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products, and generate negative publicity. · Deductible Worker’s Compensation Program. Our California and Oregon locations entered into a partially self-insured worker’s compensation program for fiscal year 2003 and except for the calendar year 2008, have continued the program through 2009. This program features a fixed annual payment, with a deductible on a per occurrence basis. The annual expense consists of a base fee paid to an insurance company to administer the program, direct cash expenses to pay for injuries, an estimate for potential injuries that may have occurred but have not been reported, an estimate by the insurance company of costs to close out each injury, and an estimate for injury development. We have been on this partially self-insured program for five of the last six years and have limited history of claim resolution available to support our specific actuarial projections. We still have claims from 2003 that have not been closed. Therefore, we use published industry actuarial data from an insurance carrier and review each claim individually to determine the amount of reserves that should be established. We believe that our current safety program and our good safety record will provide the foundation to enable us to realize the premium savings partially self-insured programs are designed to achieve; however, estimated reserves may vary from future cash outlays. · Fluctuations in Revenues due to Natural Disasters or Other Causes. We may experience sales fluctuations for many reasons, including variations in the mix of products sold, competitive factors, price changes, supply changes, weather-related disruptions, and other natural disasters. Our main operating facility is located where earthquakes are common and we lack a viable plan to continue producing if a major natural disaster were to damage our operating plants. Sales may also fluctuate because of delays in introducing new products or customer delays in issuing purchase orders for new or current products. · General risks of litigation. We are involved on on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. Our policy is to maintain reserves against probable liability in cases which are actually pending, but we maintain no reserve against liabilities which might occur in connection with claims which have not been asserted. As of December 31, 2008, we have no reserves for potential liabilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Inapplicable 