ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. We may not maintain profitability. We incurred losses each year from our inception through the year ended December 31, 2002 and also for the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $108.5 million at December 31, 2007. We expect to continue experiencing fluctuations in our operating results and cannot assure sustained profitability. Our ability to generate significant revenues and maintain profitability is dependent in large part on our ability to expand our customer base, increase sales of our current products to existing customers, manage our expense growth, and enter into additional supply, license and collaborative arrangements as well as on our ability and that of our collaborative partners to successfully manufacture and commercialize products incorporating our technologies in new applications and in new markets. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses increase more than we expect or cannot be reduced in the event of lower revenues, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly results have historically fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate unpredictably and any failure to meet financial expectations may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly due in part to factors that are beyond our control and which we cannot predict. The timing of our customers' orders may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. However, we have historically experienced customer ordering patterns for GeneChip® instrumentation and GeneChip® arrays where the majority of the shipments occur in the last month of the quarter. These ordering patterns may limit management's ability to accurately forecast our future revenues or product mix. Additionally, license revenue may also be unpredictable and may fluctuate due to the timing of payments of non-recurring licensing fees. Because our expenses are largely fixed in the short to medium term, any material shortfall in revenues will materially reduce 21 our profitability and may cause us to experience losses. In particular, our revenue growth and profitability depend on sales of our GeneChip® products. Factors that could cause sales for these products to fluctuate include: •competition •our inability to produce products in sufficient quantities and with appropriate quality; •the loss of or reduction in orders from key customers; •the frequency of experiments conducted by our customers; •our customers' inventory of GeneChip® products; •the receipt of relatively large orders with short lead times; and •our customers' expectations as to how long it takes us to fill future orders. Some additional factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: •weakness in the global economy and changing market conditions; •general economic conditions affecting our target customers; •changes in the amounts or timing of government funding to companies and research institutions; and •changes in the attitude of the pharmaceutical industry towards the use of genetic information and genetic testing as a methodology for drug discovery and development. We cannot forecast with any certainty the impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure in the past to meet these expectations has adversely affected the market price of our common stock and may continue to do so. We may experience fluctuations in demand for our products or make improvements in our technological capabilities that may impact our manufacturing capacity requirements. If demand for our products is reduced or if we implement technologies that increase the density or yields of our wafers, our manufacturing capacity could be under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, which would increase our expenses. In addition, factory planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers' product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. In addition, if demand for our products is reduced or we fail to accurately forecast demand, we could be required to write down inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. For example, we have in the past, and may in the future, adjust our capacity based on business requirements, which may include the rationalization of our facilities, including the abandonment of long-lived manufacturing assets and additional charges related to a reduction in capacity In February 2008, we implemented a restructuring plan in order to optimize our production capacity and cost structure to enable us to increase our future gross margins. We intend to move, by the end of 2008, the majority of our probe array manufacturing from our West Sacramento, California facility to our Singapore facility. 22 We may lose customers or experience lost sales if we are unable to manufacture or experience delays in the manufacture of our products, or if we are unable to ensure their proper performance and quality. We produce our GeneChip® products in an innovative and complicated manufacturing process which has the potential for significant variability in manufacturing yields. We have encountered and may in the future encounter difficulties in manufacturing our products and, due to the complexity of our products and our manufacturing process, we may experience delays in the manufacture of our products or fail to ensure their proper performance or quality. We developed a new probe array manufacturing facility in Singapore. Manufacturing and product quality issues may arise at the new Singapore facility as we increase production rates and launch new products. In addition, we base our manufacturing capabilities on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which could adversely impact our financial results. Difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand could also cause us to lose customers or require us to delay new product introductions, which could in turn result in reduced demand for our products. We rely on internal quality control procedures to verify our manufacturing processes. Due to the complexity of our products and manufacturing process, however, it is possible that probe arrays that do not meet all of our performance specifications may not be identified before they are shipped. If our products do not consistently meet our customers' performance expectations, demand for our products will decline. In addition, we do not maintain any backup manufacturing capabilities for the production of our GeneChip® instruments. Any interruption in our ability to continue operations at our existing manufacturing facilities could delay our ability to develop or sell our products, which could result in lost revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to deliver acceptable products to our customers due to the rapidly evolving nature of genetic sequence information upon which our products are based. The genetic sequence information upon which we rely to develop and manufacture our products is contained in a variety of public databases throughout the world. These databases are rapidly expanding and evolving. In addition, the accuracy of such databases and resulting genetic research is dependent on various scientific interpretations and it is not expected that global genetic research efforts will result in standardized genetic sequence databases for particular genomes in the near future. Although we have implemented ongoing internal quality control efforts to help ensure the quality and accuracy of our products, the fundamental nature of our products requires us to rely on genetic sequence databases and scientific interpretations which are continuously evolving. As a result, these variables may cause us to develop and manufacture products that incorporate sequence errors or ambiguities. The magnitude and importance of these errors depends on multiple and complex factors that would be considered in determining the appropriate actions required to remedy any inaccuracies. Our inability to timely deliver acceptable products as a result of these factors would likely adversely affect our relationship with customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with technological obsolescence and emergence of standardized systems for genetic analysis. The RNA/DNA probe array field is undergoing rapid technological changes. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge which might allow the packaging and analysis of genomic information at densities similar to or higher than our microarray technology. Other companies may begin to offer products that are directly competitive with, or are technologically superior, to our products. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain our technological advantages over 23 emerging technologies in the future. Over time, we will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry. In addition, although we believe that we are recognized as a market leader in creating systems for genetic analysis in the life sciences, standardization of tools and systems for genetic research is still ongoing and there can be no assurance that our products will emerge as the standard for genetic research. The emergence of competing technologies and systems as market standards for genetic research may result in our products becoming uncompetitive and could cause our business to suffer. Our success depends on the continual development of new products and our ability to manage the transition from our older products to new products. We compete in markets that are new, intensely competitive, highly fragmented and rapidly changing, and many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition, more extensive customer bases and access to proprietary genetic content. The continued success of our GeneChip® products will depend on our ability to produce products with smaller feature sizes, our ability to dice the wafer, and create greater information capacity at our current or lower costs. The successful development, manufacture and introduction of our new products is a complicated process and depends on our ability to manufacture enough products in sufficient quantity and at acceptable cost in order to meet customer demand. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies or are unable to develop, manufacture and introduce new products, including the development of new assay protocols and training our customers, we will become less competitive, our pricing and margins will decline and our business will suffer. Our failure to successfully manage the transition between our older products and our new products may adversely affect our financial results. As we introduce new or enhanced products, we must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When we introduce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand and difficulties in managing different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to reduce costs across our operations. We are pursuing and may continue to pursue a number of initiatives to reduce costs across our operations. These initiatives include workforce reductions in certain areas and the rationalization of our facilities. In 2006, we announced our plan to consolidate our Bedford, Massachusetts based instrumentation manufacturing and development facility with our manufacturing facility in West Sacramento, California. Implementation of the workforce severance and relocation elements of the Bedford facility closure continued through fiscal 2007. In 2007, we implemented workforce reductions in certain areas in Santa Clara, California. We anticipate that we will incur some level of restructuring charges through the end of 2008 as we continue to implement these initiatives. We may not realize the expected benefits of our current and future initiatives to reduce costs. As a result of these initiatives, we expect to incur restructuring or other charges and we may experience disruptions in our operations, a loss of key personnel and difficulties in delivering products in a timely manner. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business and distract our management. We have engaged in acquisitions, including our acquisition of USB Corporation in 2008 and ParAllele BioScience, Inc. in 2005. We will continue to evaluate future acquisitions of businesses, 24 services or technologies that we believe to be of strategic importance. Future acquisitions could involve our use of a material portion of our existing cash balance and could limit other potential uses of our cash. If we incur indebtedness in connection with our acquisitions, we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements. We may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business into our existing business or an acquired product into our existing product offerings in a timely and non-disruptive manner, or at all, and we could fail to commercialize an acquired technology. Furthermore, an acquisition may not produce the revenues, cost savings, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate. Our due diligence process could fail to identify problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with the associated intellectual property, product quality or accounting practices. Other challenges could include unanticipated incompatibility of corporate and administrative infrastructures, an inability to retain key employees, including key scientists, the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns, and the potential adverse reaction of customers or other business partners to an acquisition or resulting changes to the combined company's product and services offerings. Pre-existing liabilities that we assume in connection with an acquisition could be materially larger than we anticipate. We may face litigation or other claims in connection with an acquisition, or we may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition. If a past or future acquisition fails to meet our expectations, we may need to recognize a goodwill impairment charge. The final valuation of purchased assets and liabilities could impact our future operating results, including our gross margins. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders would be diluted. If we do not attract and retain key employees, our business could be impaired. To be successful, we must attract and retain qualified scientific, engineering, manufacturing, sales, and management personnel. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts we need additional people skilled in areas such as bioinformatics, organic chemistry, information services, regulatory affairs, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Competition for these people is intense. We will not be able to expand our business if we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and our failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on our scientific advisors and consultants to assist us in formulating our research, development and commercialization strategy. All of these individuals are engaged by other employers and have commitments to other entities that may limit their availability to us. A scientific advisor's other obligations may prevent him or her from assisting us in developing our technical and business strategies. We expect to face increasing competition. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. We expect to face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. For example, companies such as Agilent Technologies, Applied Biosystems and Illumina have products for genetic analysis which are directly competitive with our GeneChip® products. In addition, 25 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significant needs for genomic information and may choose to develop or acquire competing technologies to meet these needs. In the molecular diagnostics field, competition will likely come from established diagnostic companies, companies developing and marketing DNA probe tests for genetic and other diseases and other companies conducting research on new technologies to ascertain and analyze genetic information. Further, in the event that we develop new technology and products that compete with existing technology and products of well established companies, there can be no guarantee that the marketplace will readily adopt any such new technology and products that we may introduce in the future. The market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share. Companies such as Beckman Coulter, Becton Dickinson, bioMérieux, Celera Diagnostics, Johnson & Johnson and Roche Diagnostics have made strategic commitments to diagnostics, have financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, and have substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which are not compatible with the GeneChip® system and could deter acceptance of our products. In addition, these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies which provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. Changes in accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been new accounting pronouncements that may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. For instance, in July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 ("FIN 48"). Under FIN 48 a company recognizes the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. FIN 48 clarifies how a company measures the income tax benefits from the tax positions that are recognized, provides guidance as to the timing of the derecognition of previously recognized tax benefits and describes the methods for classifying and disclosing the liabilities within the financial statements for any unrecognized tax benefits. FIN 48 also addresses when a company should record interest and penalties related to tax positions and how the interest and penalties may be classified within the income statement and presented in the balance sheet. We adopted FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II for further details. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Significant estimates and judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. The ultimate amount of our tax liability may be uncertain as a result. Certain jurisdictions have lower tax rates, and the amount of earnings in these jurisdictions may fluctuate. If we do not have profitable operations in these jurisdictions, our tax rate could be adversely impacted. Changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate could have a material impact on our tax provision. To the extent that we are unable to continue to reinvest a substantial portion of our profits in our foreign operations, we may be subject to additional effective income tax rate increases in the future. Tax authorities may challenge the allocation of profits between 26 our subsidiaries and we may not prevail in any such challenge. If we were not to prevail, we could be subject to higher tax rates or double tax. We rely on our ability to project future taxable income to assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax asset will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. Significant estimates are required in determining any valuation allowance to be recorded against our net deferred tax assets. Changes in the amount of valuation allowance required may adversely impact our financial results of operations. Other factors that could affect our effective tax rate include levels of overall income, research and development spending and nondeductible expenses such as stock based compensation. Our business depends on research and development spending levels for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and governmental research institutions. We expect that our revenues in the foreseeable future will be derived primarily from products and services provided to a relatively small number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic, governmental and other research institutions. Our success will depend upon their demand for and use of our products and services. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. For example, reductions in capital expenditures by these customers may result in lower than expected instrumentation sales and similarly, reductions in operating expenditures by these customers could result in lower than expected GeneChip® array and reagent sales. These reductions and delays may result from factors that are not within our control, such as: •changes in economic conditions; •changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions; •changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences companies and life sciences research; •market-driven pressures on companies to consolidate and reduce costs; and •other factors affecting research and development spending. Our success in penetrating emerging market opportunities in molecular diagnostics depends on the efforts of our partners and the ability of our GeneChip® technologies to be used in clinical applications for diagnosing and enabling informed disease management options in the treatment of disease. The clinical applications of GeneChip® technologies for diagnosing and enabling informed disease management options in the treatment of disease is an emerging market opportunity in molecular diagnostics that seeks to improve the effectiveness of health care by collecting information about DNA variation and RNA expression in patients at various times from diagnosis through prognosis and on to the end of therapy. However, there can be no assurances that molecular diagnostic markets will develop as quickly as we expect or reach what we believe is their full potential. Although we believe that there will be clinical applications of our GeneChip® technologies that will be utilized for diagnosing and enabling informed disease management options in the treatment of disease, there can be no certainty of the technical or commercial success our technologies will achieve in such markets. The molecular diagnostics market is relatively new for us and presents us with new risks and uncertainties. Our success in this area depends to a large extent on our collaborative relationships and the ability of our collaborative partners to successfully market and sell products using our GeneChip® technologies. As a result, we are also dependent on the ability of our collaborative partners to achieve regulatory approval for such products in the United States and in overseas markets. Although Roche 27 received FDA approval of the first diagnostic genotyping test for use with our GeneChip® System 3000Dx in late 2004, there can be no assurance that other products using our GeneChip® technologies will achieve needed approvals. Our planned upgrade to our information systems could disrupt our internal operations, which could harm our revenues and increase our expenses. We are in the process of upgrading our enterprise resource accounting information system. We plan to integrate a substantial portion of our business and finance activities into the upgraded system during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Due to the size and complexity of our business, the conversion process will be very challenging. Any disruptions and problems that occur during the system conversion could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business, including taking customer orders, manufacturing and shipping our products, billing and collecting customer receivables and reporting our operating results. Even if we do succeed, the implementation may be more costly than we anticipated. We may not successfully obtain or retain regulatory approval of any diagnostic or other product or service that we or our collaborative partners develop. The FDA must approve certain in-vitro diagnostic products before they can be marketed in the U.S. Certain in-vitro diagnostic products must also be approved by the regulatory agencies of foreign governments or jurisdictions before the product can be sold outside the U.S. Commercialization of our and our collaborative partners' in-vitro diagnostic products outside of the research environment that may depend upon successful completion of clinical trials. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and we do not know whether we, or any of our collaborative partners, will be permitted to undertake clinical trials of any potential in-vitro diagnostic products. It may take us or our collaborative partners many years to complete any such testing, and failure can occur at any stage. Delays or rejections of potential products may be encountered based on changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Moreover, if and when our projects reach clinical trials, we or our collaborative partners may decide to discontinue development of any or all of these projects at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. Any of the foregoing matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even where a product is exempted from FDA clearance or approval, the FDA may impose restrictions as to the types of customers to which we can market and sell our products. Such restrictions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Medical device laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries, ranging from comprehensive device approval requirements to requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products which have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA or other export restrictions. Our diagnostic clinical laboratory is subject to extensive federal and state regulation including the requirements of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (CLIA). CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by requiring all laboratories to meet specified standards in the areas of personnel qualification, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. There can be no assurance that regulations under and future administrative interpretations of CLIA will not have an adverse impact on the potential market for our diagnostic clinical laboratory. 28 Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our returns on molecular diagnostic products that we may develop with our collaborators. We are currently developing diagnostic and therapeutic products with our collaborators. The ability of our collaborators to commercialize such products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of these products will be available under U.S. and foreign regulations that govern reimbursement for clinical testing services by government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. In the U.S., third-party payer price resistance, the trend towards managed health care and legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs could reduce prices for health care products and services, adversely affect the profits of our customers and collaborative partners and reduce our future royalties. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and we will be unable to manufacture our products if shipments from these suppliers are delayed or interrupted. We depend on our vendors to provide components of our products in required volumes, at appropriate quality and reliability levels, and in compliance with regulatory requirements. Key parts of the GeneChip® product line are currently available only from a single source or limited sources. In addition, components of our manufacturing equipment and certain raw materials used in the synthesis of probe arrays are available from limited sources. If supplies from these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, we would not be able to get manufacturing equipment, produce probe arrays, or sell scanners or other components for our GeneChip® products in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms. Furthermore, our business is dependent on our ability to forecast the needs for components and products in the GeneChip® product line and our suppliers' ability to deliver such components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and product release schedules. Our business could be adversely affected, for example, if suppliers fail to meet product release schedules, if we experience supply constraints, if we fail to negotiate favorable pricing or if we experience any other interruption or delay in the supply chain which interferes with our ability to manufacture our products or manage our inventory levels. Our success will require that we establish a strong intellectual property position and that we can defend ourselves against intellectual property claims from others. Maintaining a strong patent position is critical to our business. Litigation on these matters has been prevalent in our industry and we expect that this will continue. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and the extent of future protection is highly uncertain, so we cannot assure you that the patent rights that we have or may obtain will be valuable. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications that are similar or identical to ours or those of our licensors. To determine the priority of inventions, we will have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that could result in substantial costs in legal fees and could substantially affect the scope of our patent protection. We cannot assure you that any such patent applications will not have priority over our patent applications. Also, our intellectual property may be subject to significant administrative and litigation proceedings such as opposition proceedings against our patents in Europe, Japan and other jurisdictions. Because of the size and breadth of our patent portfolio we may or may not choose to pursue litigation or interferences against those that have infringed on our patents, or used them without authorization, due to the associated expense and time commitment of monitoring these activities. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Legal actions to enforce our patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. In addition, these legal actions could be unsuccessful and could also result in the invalidation of our patents or a 29 finding that they are unenforceable. In addition, we have incurred and may in future periods incur substantial costs in litigation to defend against patent suits brought by third parties. For example, we currently are engaged in litigation regarding intellectual property rights with Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. For additional information concerning intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings, see Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon copyright and trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide adequate protection for our copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, there can be no assurance that trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our trade secrets and other proprietary information. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to effectively protect our copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary information. If we cannot obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to offer probe array systems similar to our GeneChip® technology. Our success also depends in part on us neither infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties nor breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. We are aware of third-party patents that may relate to our technology, including reagents used in probe array synthesis and in probe array assays, probe array scanners, synthesis techniques, polynucleotide amplification techniques, assays, and probe arrays. We routinely receive notices claiming infringement from third parties as well as invitations to take licenses under third party patents. There can be no assurance that we will not infringe on these patents or other patents or proprietary rights or that we would be able to obtain a license to such patents or proprietary rights on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with collaborative partners, we may have difficulty developing and selling our products and services. We believe that our success in penetrating our target markets depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with key companies as well as with key academic researchers. Relying on our collaborative relationships is risky to our future success because: •our partners may develop technologies or components competitive with our GeneChip® products; •our existing collaborations may preclude us from entering into additional future arrangements; •our partners may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; •some of our agreements may terminate prematurely due to disagreements between us and our partners; •our partners may not devote sufficient resources to the development and sale of our products; •our partners may be unable to provide the resources required for us to progress in the collaboration on a timely basis; •our collaborations may be unsuccessful; or •some of our agreements have expired and we may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms. 30 The size and structure of our current sales, marketing and technical support organizations may limit our ability to sell our products. Although we have invested significant resources to expand our direct sales force and our technical and support staff, we may not be able to establish a sufficiently sized global sales, marketing or technical support organization to sell, market or support our products globally. To assist our sales and support activities, we have entered into distribution agreements through certain distributors, principally in markets outside of North America and Europe. These and other third parties on whom we rely for sales, marketing and technical support in these geographic areas may decide to develop and sell competitive products or otherwise become our competitors, which could harm our business. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business. A significant amount of our revenue is currently generated from sales outside the United States. Though such transactions are denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition are still affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including export and trade barriers and taxes; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with international operations, such as political, social and economic instability, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. We cannot assure investors that one or more of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results or require us to modify our current business practices. We may be exposed to liability due to product defects. The risk of product liability claims is inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human diagnostic and therapeutic products. We may seek to acquire additional insurance for clinical liability risks. We may not be able to obtain such insurance or general product liability insurance on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. A product liability claim or recall could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our molecular diagnostic products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic equity investments may result in losses. We periodically make strategic equity investments in various publicly traded and non-publicly traded companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. The market values of these strategic equity investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Other than temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies will require us to record losses relative to our ownership interest. This could result in future charges on our earnings and as a result, it is 31 uncertain whether or not we will realize any long term benefits associated with these strategic investments. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock is volatile. During the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2007, the volume of our common stock traded from 255,600 to 7,694,100 shares. Moreover, during that period, our common stock traded as low as $20.00 per share and as high as $31.95 per share. Furthermore, volatility in the stock price of other companies has often led to securities class action litigation against those companies. Any future securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The matters relating to our internal review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may have a material adverse effect on us. During 2006, we conducted an internal review, performed under the direction of our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, of our historical stock option granting practices from January 1, 1997 through May 31, 2006. As a result of this review, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to record additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the related tax impact resulting from stock options granted during fiscal years 1997 to 1999. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to litigation or other proceedings or actions arising in relation to our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior period financial statements. For example, three purported derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and several of our current and former officers and directors alleging that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty by backdating stock option grants, as well as violations of federal securities laws in connection with the dissemination of our financial and proxy statements, violations of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, violations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and violations of state law including violation of the California Corporations Code. In addition, we have received notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission that it is conducting an informal inquiry into our stock option practices and we have received notice from the IRS that it is conducting an employment tax audit for the 2005 and 2006 tax years. Litigation and any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments since December 31, 2007, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. 32 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 