ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with these regulations could materially adversely impact our operations. Failure to obtain government approvals and clearances for new products and/or modifications to existing products or otherwise comply with applicable laws and regulations on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. See “Business – Government Regulation.” A significant recall of one or more of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We cannot provide assurance that such clearances will be granted or that review by government authorities will not involve delays that could materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings, and cash flows. We expect the healthcare industry to face increased scrutiny over reimbursement and healthcare reform, which could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. In the United States and other countries, sales of our products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third party payers, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the United States healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of this legislation, we believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our products could adversely impact sales. This could materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. We are required to incur significant expenditures of resources in order to maintain relatively high levels of inventory, which can reduce our cash flows. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, we are subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. In the event that a substantial portion of our inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a 15 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting costs associated with the inventory impairment charges and out-of-pocket costs required to replace such inventory. We rely upon third party suppliers for raw materials and supplies, and such parties’ failure to perform of which would adversely impact our production costs. Should the availability and on time delivery of raw materials and supplies needed in the production of our products and services become unreliable or significantly more costly our earnings may be materially and adversely impacted due to the resulting increased costs of production. We conduct business in a highly competitive industry. The orthopaedic implant industry is subject to competition in the following areas: product features and design, innovation, service, the ability to maintain new product flow, relationships with key orthopaedic surgeons and hospitals, strength of distribution network and price. In addition, we face competition for regional sales representatives within the medical community. Our largest competitors in the orthopaedic device market are DePuy, Inc., a division of Johnson and Johnson, Zimmer, Inc., a subsidiary of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Stryker Howmedica Osteonics, a subsidiary of Stryker Corp., Smith and Nephew plc, and Biomet Orthopaedics, a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. Our success is partially dependent upon our ability to successfully market new and improved products and the market acceptance of those products, and our failure to successfully market these products would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. The failure of our products to gain market acceptance would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. We cannot provide assurance that our new or improved products will gain market acceptance. Future acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by surgeons, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community, about the safety and effectiveness of our products; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new products and of surgeons to decide to use these products; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in our product’s approved labeling; • the efficacy and potential advantages relative to competing products and products under development; • effectiveness of education, marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; • reimbursement of our products by third party payors; and • the price for our products and competing products. Our sales are partially derived from the distribution of third party manufacturer’s products who, in certain instances could discontinue their relationship with us. Should we fail to meet the minimum sales performance or purchases commitments common to such third party manufacturer distribution agreements, those third parties may elect to discontinue our distribution of their products and services. Should we lose the rights to one or more of our distribution agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations, the violation of which can result in the imposition of harsh penalties materially adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. There are extensive federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, violations of which can result in significant criminal and civil penalties. These federal laws include: the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other federal healthcare programs; the physician self-referral prohibition, commonly referred to as the Stark Law; the anti-inducement law, which prohibits providers from offering anything to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to induce that beneficiary to use items or services covered by either program; the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and; the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the United States Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent or abusive acts. Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, money penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both. As federal and state budget pressures continue, federal and state administrative agencies may also continue to escalate investigation and enforcement efforts to root out waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private persons to sue on behalf of the government. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. An investigation into the use by physicians of any of our products, once commercialized, may dissuade physicians from either purchasing or using them, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize those products. We cannot provide assurance as to the level of protection patents on specific designs and processes will afford us and with respect to some products, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which provide less protection. We cannot provide assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that those confidential or proprietary information agreements will not be breached, that the parties from whom we have licensed or otherwise acquired patent rights, proprietary rights and technology have full rights to those patent rights and technology, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. Our business depends on proprietary technology which we may not be able to protect and which may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends, in part, on the strength of the intellectual property rights relating to our products and proprietary technology. There are no guarantees that patent protection will be obtainable for all of our products whether in the U.S. or abroad, or that any protection that is obtained will be broad enough to be effective and of value, or that it will withstand challenges as to validity and enforceability. We do not currently have patent protection for all of our products. Our Optetrak knee system is one such unpatented product. For our unpatented products, the only intellectual property rights that exist at present, if any, are trade secret rights. We cannot guarantee that others will not readily ascertain by proper means the proprietary technology used in or embodied by our products, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent products or that we can meaningfully protect the rights to unpatented products. We cannot guarantee that our agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, sub-licensees and strategic partners restricting the disclosure and use of trade secrets, inventions and confidential information relating to our products will provide meaningful protection. It is possible that third parties may assert that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. It is virtually impossible for us to be certain that no infringement exists. Furthermore, because we have acquired some of the intellectual property used in our business from third parties, there are additional 17 Table of Contents inherent uncertainties about the origin and ownership of the intellectual property that could contribute to our infringement exposure. It is also possible that we may need to acquire additional licenses from third parties in order to avoid infringement. We cannot assure you that any required license would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights as well as in enforcing our rights against others, and if we are found to infringe, the manufacture, sale and use of our products could be enjoined. Any claims against us, with or without merit, would likely be time-consuming, requiring our management team to dedicate substantial time to addressing the issues presented. Furthermore, many of the parties bringing claims may have greater resources than we do. Any of these events could materially harm our business. We must devote substantial resources to research and development, which adversely impacts our cash flows and provides no guarantee of success. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in developing competitive new products and/or improving existing products so that our products remain competitive and avoid obsolescence. In addition, whether or not successful, these research and development efforts place stress on our cash flows which could have a material adverse effect on our business, should our efforts prove unsuccessful in producing competitive products that achieve market acceptance. We are subject to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, marketing and sale of orthopaedic implants and surgical instrumentation. We cannot provide assurance we will not face claims resulting in substantial liability for which we are not fully insured. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due the cost of defending ourselves against such a claim. Any product liability claim, even one that was not in excess of our insurance coverage or one that is meritless and/or unsuccessful, could adversely affect our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Product liability claims may result in reduced demand for our products, if approved, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the existence of a product liability claim could affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to the risk of an inability to secure and maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Product liability insurance premiums are volatile. Should premiums increase significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the increase in operating costs that would result. We presently carry products liability insurance with coverage in an amount we consider reasonable and customary. However, this insurance coverage includes various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage, and in any event might not fully cover any potential claims. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance in the future at an acceptable cost. Our products, including products that are manufactured by third parties but distributed by us, may be subject to recall or product liability claims. These products are used in medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If these products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we or the third party manufacturer of these products may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of these products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we could be subject to lawsuits 18 Table of Contents seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. In October 2005, Regeneration Technologies, Inc., a distributor of allograft materials with whom we have a distribution relationship, announced a voluntary recall of some of its allograft tissue implants due to questions raised with respect to donor documentation on donated tissues received from an unaffiliated donor recovery organization. This recall affected some of the allograft tissue services distributed by Exactech. The ultimate effect of this recall on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows is uncertain. We partially depend on third parties for sales and marketing, and our inability to effectively utilize the services provided by these third parties would materially adversely impact our ability to generate sales. With respect to our international markets, we depend on independent sales representatives and distributors for the sale and marketing of certain of our products. We have a network of distributors who market our products. Our contracts with distributors generally grant them the exclusive right to market our products in a specified territory. The distributor typically is not required to meet designated sales quotas. Our arrangements with our independent sales representatives and distributors typically do not preclude them from selling competitive products. Our success depends upon the expertise of our independent sales representatives and distributors and their relationships with our customers. Our inability to attract and retain qualified sales representatives and distributors would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management due to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations, and these integrations may not proceed as planned. On January 2, 2008, we consummated our acquisition of Altiva Corporation, a company which is continuing to build an asset portfolio through the acquisition of existing spinal products and systems as well as acquiring broad distribution rights to other existing spinal market technologies. Also, on February 22, 2008, we signed a share purchase agreement to acquire France Medica SAS, a Strasbourg-based importer and distributor of orthopaedic products and surgical supplies, which acquisition we anticipate completing in the second quarter of 2008. We intend to continue to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, technologies, products and services. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems and risks, including: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with the existing businesses; • difficulty maintaining relationships with important third parties, including those relating to marketing alliances and providing preferred partner status and favorable pricing; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses; • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; • inability to retain and motivate management and other key personnel of the acquired businesses; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; • potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; • potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders; • the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and • the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues 19 Table of Contents than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other harmful effects on our business. Any of these risks can be greater if an acquisition is large relative to the size of our company. Failure to manage effectively our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties implementing our expansion plan. We expect that we may encounter challenges and difficulties in implementing our expansion plans. These challenges and difficulties relate to our ability to: • identify and obtain the use of locations in which we believe there is sufficient demand for our products; • identify and obtain technologies we believe are suitable and complementary to our own platform; • generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through additional debt or equity financings to support these expansion plans; • hire, train and retain sufficient additional financial reporting management, operational and technical employees; and • install and implement new financial and other systems, procedures and controls to support this expansion plan with minimal delays. If we encounter greater than anticipated difficulties in implementing our expansion plan, it may be necessary to take additional actions, which could divert management’s attention and strain our operational and financial resources. We may not successfully address any or all of these challenges, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business plan and results of operations, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to achieve enhanced profitability. If we acquire companies, products or technologies, we may face integration risks and costs associated with those acquisitions that could negatively impact our business, results from operations and financial condition. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefit of any acquisition or investment. If we acquire companies or technologies, we will face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations of an acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. Any failure to successfully integrate other companies, products or technologies that we may acquire may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our success. We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have extended until March 31, 2008 the term of our employment agreement with William Petty, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, to allow us time to renegotiate its terms. To the extent we are unsuccessful in entering into a new employment agreement with Dr. Petty or Dr. Petty otherwise terminates his employment with Exactech for any reason, his absence could have a material adverse 20 Table of Contents effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We do not maintain keyman life insurance with respect to these key individuals. Our recent and potential growth and expansion are expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. Our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could impair our ability to manage and operate our business effectively. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business conditions could harm our business in international markets. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 22% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • Healthcare laws and regulations may be more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce which could have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Our policy is to enter agreements relating to the non-disclosure of confidential information with third parties, including our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them. However, these agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. Moreover, to the extent that our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to this type of information. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party, and enforcement of our rights can be costly and unpredictable. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we will seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: • these agreements may be breached; • these agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; or • our trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known. Any breach of our confidentiality agreements or our failure to effectively enforce such agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. The Company, like other companies in the orthopedic industry, is involved in ongoing investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the results of which may adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. On December 12, 2007, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey requesting documents from 1998 through the present related to consulting and professional service agreements between us and orthopedic surgeons and other medical professionals. We are aware that similar inquiries have been directed to other companies in the orthopedics industry. Any resolution of this investigation remains uncertain at this time. The investigation could, among other things, result in criminal prosecutions, substantial monetary payments, changes in some of our existing 21 Table of Contents business practices and additional governmental oversight. We are cooperating fully with the Department of Justice inquiry, but there can be no assurance that we will enter into a consensual resolution of this matter with the U.S. Attorney’s Office. If, as a result of these investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The directors of Altiva Corporation, Exactech’s recently acquired subsidiary, are parties to a lawsuit filed against them in connection with Exactech’s acquisition of Altiva, liability under which may be required to be covered by Altiva to the extent insurance fails to so cover. On December 31, 2007, certain common stockholders of Altiva Corporation filed an action in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Altiva, as nominal defendant, and each of the persons comprising the board of directors of Altiva. The stockholders generally allege that the merger is unfair to Altiva’s common stockholders and that the Altiva Board breached its fiduciary duty to Altiva and its stockholders in connection with the merger and certain other transactions leading up to the merger. The stockholder’s seek, among other things, declaratory relief, compensatory, consequential and rescissory damages and pre and post-judgment interest. To the extent the Court of Chancery determines the directors are liable in any fashion and Altiva’s director and officer liability insurance provider fails to cover such amounts, Altiva may be obligated to indemnify these directors for such amounts which could materially adversely impact Altiva’s financial condition and cash flows. Our stock price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market for our equity securities has been volatile (ranging from $14.11 per share to $24.44 per share during the 52-week trading period ending January 31, 2008). Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The factors that could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly include the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • future issuances of common stock or other securities; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Our common shares are thinly traded and, therefore, relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2007, we had 11,611,674 common shares outstanding. While our common shares trade on the NASDAQ, our stock is thinly traded (approximately 0.2%, or 20,583 shares, of our stock traded on an average daily basis during the 52 week trading period ended January 31, 2008) and you may have difficulty in selling your shares quickly. The low trading volume of our common stock is outside of our control, and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained. Existing stockholders’ interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund the acquisition of additional businesses and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of the shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares. We have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, and we are restricted from doing so in accordance with the terms of our credit agreements. Furthermore, we may not pay cash or stock dividends without the written consent of our senior lenders. Therefore, an investor in our common stock may obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock. Directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that an investor may not consider to be in the best interests of our shareholders. Our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our shareholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other shareholders. This could prevent the consummation of transactions favorable to other shareholders, such as a transaction in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, divert management’s attention from operating our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There have been other changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in addition to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new regulations promulgated by the Commission and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges, including the American Stock Exchange, and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving 23 Table of Contents laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we may incur additional expenses to comply with standards set by regulatory authorities or governing bodies which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 