ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors inherent in Exactech’s business, they may include those listed below, which should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties: • Exactech is subject to extensive government regulation. Failure to obtain government approvals and clearances for new products and/or modifications to existing products on a timely basis would likely have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of Exactech. A significant recall of one or more of Exactech’s products could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s business and financial results. Exactech cannot provide assurance that such clearances will be granted or that review by government authorities will not involve delays that could materially adversely affect Exactech’s revenues and earnings. • Exactech expects the healthcare industry to face increased scrutiny over reimbursement and healthcare reform, which could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer Exactech’s products. In both the United States and other countries, sales of Exactech’s products will depend in part upon the availability of 12 Table of Contents reimbursement from third party payers, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers, and private health insurers. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the United States healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of this legislation, we believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our products could adversely impact sales. This could materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. • Exactech is required to incur significant expenditures of resources in order to maintain relatively high levels of inventory. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, Exactech is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. In the event that a substantial portion of the Company’s inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings due to the resulting costs associated with the inventory impairment charges. • Exactech relies upon third party suppliers for its raw materials and supplies. Should the availability and on time delivery of raw materials and supplies needed in the production of its products and services become unreliable or the costs of such increases significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings due to the resulting increased costs of production. • Exactech conducts business in a highly competitive industry. The orthopaedic implant industry is subject to competition in the following areas: product features and design, innovation, service, the ability to maintain new product flow, relationships with key orthopaedic surgeons and hospitals, strength of distribution network, and price. In addition, Exactech faces competition for regional sales representatives within the medical community. Exactech cannot provide assurance that it will be able to compete successfully. • Exactech’s success is partially dependent upon its ability to successfully market new and improved products and the market acceptance of those products. The failure of its products to gain market acceptance would be likely to have a material adverse effect on its revenues and earnings. Exactech cannot provide assurance that new or improved products will gain market acceptance. • Exactech’s sales revenues are partially derived from the distribution of third party manufacturer’s products. Should we fail to meet the minimum sales performance or purchases commitments common to such third party manufacturer distribution agreements, those third parties may elect to discontinue Exactech’s distribution of their products and services. Should Exactech lose the rights to one or more of its distribution agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on its revenues and earnings. • Exactech is subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations. There are extensive federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry that can result in significant criminal and civil penalties. These federal laws include: the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other federal healthcare programs; the physician self-referral prohibition, commonly referred to as the Stark Law; the anti-inducement law, which prohibits providers from offering anything to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to induce that beneficiary to use items or services covered by either program; the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and; the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the United States Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent or abusive acts. Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, money penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both. As federal and state budget pressures continue, federal and state administrative agencies may also continue to escalate investigation and enforcement 13 Table of Contents efforts to root out waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private persons to sue on behalf of the government. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. An investigation into the use by physicians of any of our products, once commercialized, may dissuade physicians from either purchasing or using them, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize those products. • Exactech holds patents on specific designs and processes and relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Exactech cannot provide assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford the Company, that those confidential or proprietary information agreements will not be breached, that the parties from whom Exactech has licensed or otherwise acquired patent rights, proprietary rights and technology have full rights to those patent rights and technology, or that Exactech’s trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. • Exactech must devote substantial resources to research and development. Exactech cannot provide assurance that it will be successful in developing competitive new products and/or improving existing products so that its products remain competitive and avoid obsolescence. • Exactech is subject to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, marketing and sale of orthopaedic implants and surgical instrumentation. Exactech cannot provide assurance it will not face claims resulting in substantial liability for which Exactech is not fully insured. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against Exactech of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings and cash flows due the cost of defending itself against such a claim. • Exactech is subject to the risk of an inability to secure and maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Product liability insurance premiums are volatile. Should premiums continue to increase significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings and cash flows due to the increase in operating costs that would result. • Exactech’s products, including products that are manufactured by third parties but distributed by us, may be subject to recall or product liability claims. These products are used in medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If these products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we or the third party manufacturer of these products may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of these products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. In October 2005, Regeneration Technologies, Inc. (“RTI”), a distributor of allograft materials with whom Exactech has a distribution relationship, announced a voluntary recall of some of its allograft tissue implants due to questions raised with respect to donor documentation on donated tissues received from an unaffiliated donor recovery organization. This recall affected some of the allograft tissue services distributed by Exactech. The ultimate effect of this recall on Exactech’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows is uncertain. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 