Item 1A. Risk Factors We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs, or expectations, including the statements contained in the “Outlook” section and other portions of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. There also are other factors that we may not describe, generally because we currently do not perceive them to be material, which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Any change in the level of economic activity in North America and Europe, our major geographical markets, may have an impact on the level of demand for our products and our resulting revenue and earnings. The demand for many of our products is economically sensitive and will vary with general economic activity, trends in nonresidential construction, investment in manufacturing facilities and automation, demand for information technology equipment, and other economic factors. Changes in the price and availability of raw materials we use could be detrimental to our profitability. Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our products. During the past two years, the price of copper has risen rapidly. Other materials we use, such as PVC and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also risen in price. Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products. The majority of our products are sold through distribution, and we manage the pricing of these products through published price lists which we update from time to time, with new prices taking effect a few weeks after they are announced. Some OEM and telecom customer contracts have provisions for passing through raw material cost increases, generally with a lag of a few weeks to three months. We have been generally more successful (1) in North America than in Europe and (2) in electronic products than in networking products in increasing our prices to recapture the rising cost of materials. If we are unable to raise prices sufficiently to recover our material costs, our earnings will be reduced. If we raise our prices but competitors raise their prices less, we may lose sales, and our earnings will be reduced. We believe the supply of raw materials (copper, plastics, and other materials) is adequate and we do not expect any substantial interruption of supply or shortage of materials. If such a supply interruption or shortage were to occur, however, this could have a negative effect on revenue and earnings. The global wire and cable industry is highly competitive. We compete with other manufacturers of cable, wire, connectivity and related products based in North America, Europe and Asia. These companies compete on price, reputation and quality, product characteristics, and terms. Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, and other actions, could have a negative effect on our revenue and profitability. We rely on key suppliers, and we source some of our products from other manufacturers. There are only a few suppliers in the world for FEP, a polymer also known by the DuPont trade name Teflon®. FEP is an important material in the manufacture of much of our data networking cable sold in North America. We believe the supply of FEP is adequate and will remain adequate in the future. If we were unable to obtain a sufficient supply of FEP, we might not be able to produce enough of certain products to meet demand, and our sales and profitability would be affected negatively. In addition, we might find it necessary to pay higher prices for scarce material and raise our product prices to compensate for higher material cost, a situation in which our price increases might lag our cost increases and depress our gross margins. Belden CDT sources a minor percentage of its finished products from a network of manufacturers under private label agreements. We depend on these manufacturers to supply high quality products in a timely manner. If there were problems with the quality or delivery of these private-label goods, our sales and profits would be negatively affected. We rely on several key distributors in marketing our product. The majority of our sales are through distributors. These distributors carry the products of competitors along with our products. Our largest distributor customer, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 16 percent of our revenue in 2005. If we were to lose a key distributor, our revenue and profits would likely be reduced, at least temporarily. In the past, we have sometimes seen distributors acquired and consolidated. If there were further consolidation of the electronics and cable distributors, this could have an effect on our relationships with these distributors. It 12 Table of Contents could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which would temporarily depress our revenue. We have also experienced financial failure of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. Because we do business in many countries, our results of operations are affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Other than the United States dollar, the principal currencies to which we are exposed through our manufacturing operations and sales are the euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound. Most of our products sold in Europe are manufactured there, resulting in a natural hedge, to some degree. Most of our products sold in Asia are priced in U.S. dollars. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the results of our non-U.S. operations are translated at a lower exchange rate and thus into lower reported earnings. Our effective income tax rate may vary from year to year because of the mix of income and losses among various tax jurisdictions in which we do business. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various countries in which we do business. Our mix of income and losses in these jurisdictions determines our effective tax rate. More income in higher tax rate jurisdictions or more losses in lower tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income. If we generate losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available, our effective income tax rate will increase. We might be unable to achieve planned cost savings. The plans for our business include both revenue improvement and cost saving initiatives. For example, the Company has announced a restructuring program for its European operations. The restructuring program is expected to reduce manufacturing costs in Europe. If we do not achieve all the planned savings, we might not achieve expected levels of profitability. We may incur costs related to warranty, product liability lawsuits, or other lawsuits or claims that may be brought against us. Some of our products are warranted for 25 years. We have a reserve for expected warranty costs, but if actual costs are higher than expected, the excess costs will be recognized in future periods, reducing our income. Our products could be subject to product liability claims and litigation. If our products are not properly designed and manufactured, personal injuries, death, or property damage could result. The costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. Please see Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. We are subject to current environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently, and may in the future be, held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of hazardous substances, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. Changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually, or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values are not recoverable. We have incurred charges in the past 13 Table of Contents for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to do so again in future periods. Such a charge would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flow. Changes in accounting rules and interpretation of these rules may affect our reported earnings. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are complex and require interpretation. These principles change from time to time, and such changes may result in changes to our reported income without any change in our underlying cash flow. Our business is subject to the political and economic uncertainties of making and selling our products abroad. A significant proportion of our sales are outside the United States. We have manufacturing facilities in Canada, Mexico and in several European countries. We rely on suppliers in many countries, including China. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to economic and political risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, and adverse foreign tax laws. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. Our products are used in connection with technologies of many kinds. Our markets are characterized by the introduction of increasingly capable products. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. Competing technologies could cause the obsolescence of many of our products. Fiber optic technology presents a potential substitute for certain of the copper-based products that comprise the majority of our sales. Fiber optic cables have significant advantages over copper-based cables in applications where large amounts of information must travel great distances. But due to the high relative cost required to interface electronic and light signals and the high cost of fiber termination and connection, we believe that copper cable is still the solution with the best combination of performance and cost for all but the trunk and riser portions of data networks and similar applications. We produce and market multimode fiber optic cables and many customers specify these products in combination with copper cables. Advances in copper cable technologies and data transmission equipment have increased the relative performance of copper solutions. The final stage of most networks remains almost exclusively copper-based and we expect that it will continue to be copper for the foreseeable future. However, if there were a significant and rapid decrease in the cost of fiber optic systems relative to the cost of copper-based systems, without a further significant increase in copper capabilities, such systems could become superior on a price/performance basis to copper systems. We do not control our own source of optical fiber production and, although we cable optical fiber, we could be at a cost disadvantage to competitors who both produce and cable optical fiber. To date, the development of wireless devices has required the development of new wired platforms and infrastructure. In the future, wireless communications technology may represent a threat to both copper and fiber optic-based systems. We believe that the insufficient signal security, susceptibility to interference and jamming, and relatively slow transmission speeds of current systems restrict the use of wireless technology in many data communications markets. However, there are no assurances that future advances in wireless technology will not have an adverse effect on our business. We have defined benefit pension plans that are not fully funded. We have defined benefit pension plans in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. The cash funding requirements for these plans depends on the financial performance of the funds’ assets, actuarial life expectancies, discount rates and other factors. The fair value of the assets in the plans is often less that the projected benefit owed 14 Table of Contents by the Company. In most years we are required to contribute cash to fund the pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans, and the amount of funding required may vary significantly. Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business. Some of our employees, primarily outside the United States, are members of collective bargaining units. We believe that the Company’s relations with employees are generally good. However, if there were a dispute with one of these bargaining units, the affected operations could be interrupted resulting in lost revenues, lost profit contribution, and customer dissatisfaction. We might have difficulty protecting our intellectual property from use by competitors, or competitors might accuse us of violating their intellectual property rights. Disagreements about patents and intellectual property rights occur in our industry. Sometimes these disagreements are settled through an agreement for one party to pay royalties to another. The unfavorable resolution of an intellectual property dispute could preclude us from manufacturing and selling certain products, could require us to pay a royalty on the sale of certain products, or could impair our competitive advantage if a competitor wins the right to sell products we believe we invented. Intellectual property disputes could result in legal fees and other costs. We announced a decision to exit the communications cable market in the United Kingdom, which will reduce our revenue and income. In September 2005 we announced plans to exit the telecommunications cable market in the United Kingdom upon the expiration of our contract with British Telecom plc in October 2006 or sooner, if possible. In connection with this decision, we expect to sell or liquidate a business that had approximately $106 million of revenue in 2005, and we expect to retain little or none of that revenue. The business generated operating profit we will no longer recognize. While we expect that the sale or liquidation of the business will generate cash in excess of the cash required to exit the business, the timing and nature of our exit from this business could negatively impact our earnings. We have in the past closed plants and reduced the size of our workforce, and we might need to do so again in the future. Much of our manufacturing capacity is in North America and Western Europe, which are relatively high-cost regions. Over the past few years, we have closed several plants and have reduced the number of people we employ. We incurred asset impairment charges, severance charges and other costs in relation to these plant closures. If we decide to close additional facilities, we could incur significant cash and non-cash charges in connection with these actions. This list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other considerations besides those mentioned above might cause our actual results to differ from expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 