Item 1A. Risk Factors We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs, or expectations, including the statements contained in the “Outlook” section and other portions of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. There also are other factors that we may not describe, generally because we currently do not perceive them to be material, which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any change in the level of economic activity in North America and Europe, our major geographical markets, may have an impact on the level of demand for our products and our resulting revenue and earnings. The demand for many of our products is economically sensitive and will vary with general economic activity, trends in nonresidential construction, investment in manufacturing facilities and automation, demand for information technology equipment, and other economic factors. Changes in the price and availability of raw materials we use could be detrimental to our profitability. Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our products. Over the past three years, the prices of metals, particularly copper, have been highly volatile. Copper rose rapidly in price for much of this period and remains a volatile commodity. Other materials we use, such as PVC and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also risen in price. Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products. The majority of our products are sold through distribution, and we manage the pricing of these products through published price lists which we update from time to time, with new prices taking effect a few weeks after they are announced. Some OEM and telecom customer contracts have provisions for passing through raw material cost changes, generally with a lag of a few weeks to three months. If we are unable to raise prices sufficiently to recover our material costs, our earnings will be reduced. If we raise our prices but competitors raise their prices less, we may lose sales, and our earnings will be reduced. In recent months, the price of copper has significantly declined. If this decline continues, we may be forced to decrease prices, which could have a negative effect on revenue, and we may be required, according to the terms of contracts with certain of our distributors, to reimburse them for a portion of the price they paid for our products in their inventory. We believe the 10 Table of Contents supply of raw materials (copper, plastics, and other materials) is adequate and we do not expect any substantial interruption of supply or shortage of materials. If such a supply interruption or shortage were to occur, however, this could have a negative effect on revenue and earnings. The global wire and cable industry is highly competitive. We compete with other manufacturers of cable, wire, connectivity and related products based in North America, Europe and Asia. These companies compete on price, reputation and quality, product characteristics, and terms. Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, and other actions, could have a negative effect on our revenue and profitability. We rely on several key distributors in marketing our product. The majority of our sales are through distributors. These distributors carry the products of competitors along with our products. Our largest distributor customer, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 21% of our revenue in 2006. If we were to lose a key distributor, our revenue and profits would likely be reduced, at least temporarily. In the past, we have seen a few distributors acquired and consolidated. If there were further consolidation of the electronics and cable distributors, this could have an effect on our relationships with these distributors. It could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which would temporarily depress our revenue. We have also experienced financial failure of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. Our effective income tax rate may vary from year to year because of the mix of income and losses among various tax jurisdictions in which we do business. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various countries in which we do business. Our mix of income and losses in these jurisdictions determines our effective tax rate. More income in higher tax rate jurisdictions or more losses in lower tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income. If we generate losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available, our effective income tax rate will increase. We might be unable to achieve planned cost savings. The plans for our business include both revenue improvement and cost saving initiatives. For example, the Company has undertaken restructuring programs concerning manufacturing operations in both North America and Europe. The restructuring programs are expected to reduce manufacturing costs. We have also announced plans to implement lean enterprise practices throughout our organization, which are expected to reduce inventory and manufacturing costs. If we do not achieve all the planned savings, we might not achieve expected levels of profitability. We are subject to current environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently, and may in the future be, held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of hazardous substances, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. Changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually, or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values are not recoverable. We have incurred charges in the past 11 Table of Contents for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to do so again in future periods. Such a charge would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flow. Changes in accounting rules and interpretation of these rules may affect our reported earnings. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are complex and require interpretation. These principles change from time to time, and such changes may result in changes to our reported income without any change in our underlying cash flow. Because we do business in many countries, our results of operations are affected by changes in currency exchange rates and are subject to political and economic uncertainties. A significant proportion of our sales are outside the United States. Other than the United States dollar, the principal currencies to which we are exposed through our manufacturing operations and sales are the euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound. Most of our products sold in Europe are manufactured there, resulting in a natural hedge, to some degree. Most of our products sold in Asia are priced in U.S. dollars. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the results of our non-U.S. operations are translated at a lower exchange rate and thus into lower reported earnings. We have manufacturing facilities in Canada, Mexico and several European countries. We rely on suppliers in many countries, including China. Our foreign operations are subject to economic and political risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, and adverse foreign tax laws. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. Our markets are characterized by the introduction of increasingly capable products, including fiber optic and wireless signal transmission solutions that compete with the copper cable solutions that comprise the majority of our revenue. The relative costs and merits of copper cable solutions, fiber optic cable solutions, and wireless solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate such changes. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. Competing technologies could cause the obsolescence of many of our products. See the discussion above in Part I, Item 1, under Importance of New Products. We have defined benefit pension plans that are not fully funded. We have defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. The cash funding requirements for these plans depends on the financial performance of the funds’ assets, actuarial life expectancies, discount rates and other factors. The fair value of the assets in the plans is often less than the projected benefit owed by the Company. In most years, we are required to contribute cash to fund the pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the amount of funding required may vary significantly. Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business. Some of our employees, primarily outside the United States, are members of collective bargaining units. We believe that the Company’s relations with employees are generally good. However, if there were a dispute with one of these bargaining units, the affected operations could be interrupted resulting in lost revenues, lost profit contribution, and customer dissatisfaction. 12 Table of Contents We might have difficulty protecting our intellectual property from use by competitors, or competitors might accuse us of violating their intellectual property rights. Disagreements about patents and intellectual property rights occur in our industry. Sometimes these disagreements are settled through an agreement for one party to pay royalties to another. The unfavorable resolution of an intellectual property dispute could preclude us from manufacturing and selling certain products, could require us to pay a royalty on the sale of certain products, or could impair our competitive advantage if a competitor wins the right to sell products we believe we invented. Intellectual property disputes could result in legal fees and other costs. We have in the past closed plants and reduced the size of our workforce, and we might elect to do so again in the future. Much of our manufacturing capacity is in North America and Western Europe, which are relatively high-cost regions. Over the past few years, as a result of the 2004 merger and in furtherance of our regional manufacturing strategy, we consolidated our capacity by closing several manufacturing plants and we reduced the number of people we employ. We incurred asset impairment charges, severance charges and other costs in relation to these plant closures. If we decide to close additional facilities, we could incur significant cash and non-cash charges in connection with these actions. If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees could have an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available, or if we do identify replacements, that the integration of those replacements will not be disruptive to our business. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of LTK and HAC. Should we fail to integrate their operations, our results of operations and profitability could be negatively impacted. We might not be successful in integrating the operations of LTK and HAC with Belden, and we might not perform as we expect. Some of the integration challenges we face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the operations of LTK and HAC for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues and retention of key officers and personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote a considerable amount of time to the integration process, which could decrease the amount of time they have to manage Belden. HAC’s business involves products with shorter life cycles than Belden, which might cause more rapid shifts in market share, for better or worse. LTK has greater customer concentration than Belden and shorter product life cycles. We cannot make assurances that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate operations. The failure to do so could have a negative effect on results of operations or profitability. The process of integrating operations could cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our or LTK’s or HAC’s businesses. Belden’s strategic plan includes is likely to include further acquisitions. The number of suitable acquisition candidates may decline if the competition for acquisition candidates increases or the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Alternatively, at the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures, including, but not limited to, our borrowing capacity or the availability of alternative financing, may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or 13 Table of Contents obtaining additional debt financing. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. One aspect of Belden’s strategic plan is further expansion into connectivity. Belden’s expansion of its connectivity product portfolio will most likely take place through acquisitions. Connectivity products are generally more complex and involve more research and development spending, relative to sales, than cable products. If we do not adequately invest in research and development or if our efforts to introduce new products are not successful, our revenue from the acquired businesses might not meet our expectations. The customers for connectivity products include OEMs with whom Belden has relatively little experience, and the channel structure for these products might be different from our traditional channels. We cannot make assurances that we will successfully manage the commercial integration of connectivity and other more highly engineered products with Belden’s existing business. This list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other considerations besides those mentioned above might cause our actual results to differ from expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 