Item 1A. Risk Factors We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media, and others. Statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs, or expectations, including the statements contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business. Our strategic plan includes further acquisitions. Our strategic plan includes further acquisitions, and the extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and integrated can affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business strategy involves continued acquisitions to support our growth, product portfolio, and business plans. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully may decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, or the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. Market conditions may prevent us from obtaining financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of acquired businesses, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses and future acquisitions might not meet our performance expectations. Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote a considerable amount of time to the integration process, which could decrease the amount of time we have to manage the other businesses. We may not be able to integrate operations successfully or cost-effectively, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations or our profitability. The process of integrating operations could also cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of acquired businesses. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees, including due to acquisitions or restructuring activities, could have an adverse effect on us. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals and the integration of potential replacements may be disruptive to our business. More broadly, a key determinant of our success is our ability to attract, develop and retain talented associates. While this is one of our strategic priorities, we may not be able to succeed in this regard. A challenging global economic environment or a downturn in the markets we serve could adversely affect our operating results and stock price in a material manner. A challenging global economic environment could cause substantial reductions in our revenue and results of operations as a result of weaker demand by the end users of our products and, for some products, price erosion. Such price erosion may occur through competitors becoming more aggressive in their pricing practices, which could adversely impact our gross margins. A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Our customers could also face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could have an adverse effect on our results if such events cause delays in collection or write-offs of receivables. Further, the demand for many of our products is economically sensitive and will vary with general economic activity, trends in nonresidential construction, investment in manufacturing facilities and automation, demand for information technology equipment, and other economic factors. We face risks regarding our European operations. Economic uncertainty, such as the uncertainty arising from various European sovereign debt crises or general economic conditions, could result in a significant decline in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, which could result in a significant adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations; could make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities; and could cause our customers to slow spending on our products and services, which could delay and lengthen sales cycles. The global cable, connectivity, and networking industries are highly competitive. We face competition from other manufacturers for each of our product platforms and in each of our geographic regions. These companies compete on price, reputation and quality, product technology and characteristics, and terms. Some multinational competitors have greater engineering, financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we have. Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, market penetration, and other actions, could have a negative effect on our revenue and profitability. Moreover, during economic downturns, some competitors that are highly leveraged both financially and operationally could become more aggressive in their pricing of products. We may be unable to achieve our strategic priorities in emerging markets. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our strategic plan, and our presence in emerging markets expanded on April 1, 2011 with our acquisition of Poliron in Brazil. The developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. We may be unable to attract, develop, and retain appropriate talent to manage our businesses in emerging markets. Deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region may adversely affect our operations or financial results. Among the risks in emerging market countries are bureaucratic intrusions and delays, contract compliance failures, fluctuating currencies and interest rates, limitations on the amount and nature of investments, restrictions on permissible forms and structures of investment, unreliable legal and financial infrastructure, regime disruption and political unrest, uncontrolled inflation and commodity prices, fierce local competition with better political connections, and corruption. In addition, the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations in emerging markets may negatively impact our competitive position as compared to locally owned manufacturers. 10 Table of Contents Legal compliance issues could adversely affect our business. We have a strong legal compliance and ethics program, including a code of business conduct and ethics, policies on anti-bribery, export controls and other legal compliance areas, and periodic training to relevant associates on these matters. While we believe that this program should reduce the likelihood of a legal compliance violation, such a violation could still occur, disrupting our business through fines, penalties, diversion of internal resources, and negative publicity. We may be unable to implement our strategic plan successfully. Our strategic plan is designed to improve revenues and profitability, reduce costs, and improve working capital management. To achieve these goals, our strategic priorities are to continue deployment of our Market Delivery System (MDS) so as to capture market share through end-user engagement, channel management, outbound marketing, and vertical strategy; improve our recruitment and development of talented associates; develop strong global connector and industrial networking product platforms; acquire businesses that fit our strategic plan; and become a leading Lean company. Lean refers to a business management system that strives to create value for customers and deliver that value to the right place, at the right time, and in the right quantities while reducing or eliminating waste from all processes. We have a disciplined process for deploying this strategic plan through our associates. There is a risk that we may not be successful in executing these measures to achieve the expected results for a variety of reasons, including market developments, economic conditions, shortcomings in establishing appropriate action plans, or challenges with executing multiple initiatives simultaneously. For example, our MDS initiative may not succeed or we may lose market share due to challenges in choosing the right products to market or the right customers for these products, integrating products of acquired companies into our sales and marketing strategy, or strategically bidding against OEM partners. We may not be able to acquire businesses that fit our strategic plan on acceptable business terms, and we may not achieve our other strategic priorities. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products. Our markets are characterized by the introduction of products with increasing technological capabilities, including fiber optic and wireless signal transmission solutions that compete with the copper cable solutions that comprise the majority of our revenue. The relative costs and merits of copper cable solutions, fiber optic cable solutions, and wireless solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate such changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, and customer service and support. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. Competing technologies could cause the obsolescence of many of our products. See the discussion above in Part I, Item 1, under Importance of New Products and Product Improvements; Impact of Technological Change; Impact of Acquisitions. We rely on several key distributors in marketing our products. The majority of our sales are through distributors. These distributors carry the products of competitors along with our products. Our largest distributor, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 16% of our revenue in 2011. If we were to lose a key distributor, our revenue and profits would likely be reduced, at least temporarily. In the past, we have seen some distributors acquired and consolidated. If there were further consolidation of the electronics and cable distributors, this could affect our relationships with these distributors. It could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which would temporarily depress our revenue. In addition, changes in the inventory levels of our products held by our distributors can result in significant variability in our 11 Table of Contents revenues. We have also experienced financial failure of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. A global economic downturn could cause financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the price and availability of raw materials we use could be detrimental to our profitability. Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our products. Over the past few years, the prices of metals, particularly copper, have been highly volatile. Copper rose rapidly in price for much of this period and remains a volatile commodity. Prices of other materials we use, such as polyvinylchloride (PVC) and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also been volatile. Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products. The majority of our products are sold through distribution, and we manage the pricing of these products through published price lists which we update from time to time, with new prices typically taking effect a few weeks after they are announced. Some OEM contracts have provisions for passing through raw material cost changes, generally with a lag of a few weeks to three months. If we are unable to raise prices sufficiently to recover our material costs, our earnings will be reduced. If we raise our prices but competitors raise their prices less, we may lose sales, and our earnings will be reduced. If the price of copper were to decline, we may be compelled to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could have a negative effect on revenue, and we may be required, according to the terms of contracts with certain of our distributors, to reimburse them for a portion of the price they paid for our products in their inventory. While we generally believe the supply of raw materials (copper, plastics, and other materials) is adequate, we have experienced instances of limited supply of certain raw materials, resulting in extended lead times and higher prices. If a supply interruption or shortage of materials were to occur, this could have a negative effect on revenue and earnings. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate which would affect our reported net income. We have a complex tax profile due to the global nature of our operations, which encompass multiple taxing jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties, changes in tax laws and rates, and the extent to which we are able to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets and avoid potential adverse outcomes included in deferred tax liabilities, among other matters, may significantly affect our effective income tax rate in the future. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various countries in which we do business. Our mix of income and losses in these jurisdictions affects our effective tax rate. For example, relatively more income in higher tax rate jurisdictions or relatively more losses in lower tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income. Similarly, if we generate losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available, our effective income tax rate will increase. Our effective income tax rate may also be impacted by the recognition of discrete income tax items, such as, for instance, required adjustments to our liabilities for uncertain tax positions or our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Volatility of credit markets could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty in U.S. and global financial and equity markets could make it more expensive for us to conduct our operations and may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete acquisitions. Because we do business in many countries, our results of operations are affected by changes in currency exchange rates and are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties. More than half of our sales are outside the United States. Other than the U.S. dollar, the principal currencies to which we are exposed through our manufacturing operations, sales, and related cash holdings are the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the Chinese yuan, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, the British 12 Table of Contents pound, and the Brazilian real. In most cases, we have revenues and costs in the same currency, thereby reducing our overall currency risk, although the realignment of our manufacturing capacity among our global facilities may alter this balance. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the results of our non-U.S. operations are translated at a lower exchange rate and thus into lower reported earnings. In addition to manufacturing facilities in the United States, we have manufacturing facilities in Canada, China, Mexico, Brazil, and several European countries. We rely on suppliers in many countries, including China. Our foreign operations are subject to economic and political risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad such as economic and political destabilization, land use risks, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, and adverse foreign tax laws. A risk associated with our European manufacturing operations is the higher relative expense and length of time required to adjust manufacturing employment capacity. Potential problems with our information systems could interfere with our business and operations. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for processing customer orders, shipping of products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business. Any disruption in our information systems or those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we may need to enhance our information systems to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new information systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise. Any disruptions affecting our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could adversely affect our business in a number of respects. If we are unable to successfully implement potential future information systems enhancements, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values are not recoverable. We have incurred significant charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the past, and we may be required to do so again in future periods if the underlying value of our business declines. Such a charge would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flow. We might have difficulty protecting our intellectual property from use by competitors, or competitors might accuse us of violating their intellectual property rights. Disagreements about patents and other intellectual property rights occur in the markets we serve. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business. Some of our employees, primarily outside the United States, are members of collective bargaining units. We believe that our relations with employees are generally good. However, if there were a dispute with one of these bargaining units, the affected operations could be interrupted resulting in lost revenues, lost profit contribution, and customer dissatisfaction. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to current environmental and other laws and regulations, including the risks associated with possible climate change legislation. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of hazardous substances, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. Changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions and changes in enforcement policies thereunder could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of attention. Legislation related to climate change has been introduced in the U.S. Congress. In addition, future regulation of greenhouse gas could occur pursuant to future U.S. treaty obligations or statutory or regulatory changes under existing environmental laws. While not all are likely to become law, additional climate change regulation may adversely affect our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices and requiring equipment modification or replacement. This list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other considerations besides those mentioned above might cause our actual results to differ from expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 