Item 1A. Risk Factors We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs, or expectations, including the 9 Table of Contents statements contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The current global recession and the downturn in our served markets could continue to adversely affect our operating results and stock price in a material manner. The current global downturn has caused declines in product demand, excess customer inventories, and for some products, price erosion. These factors could continue to cause substantial reductions in our revenue and results of operations as evidenced by the 20% sequential decrease in our revenue during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, during these downturns, some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which could adversely impact our gross margins. These conditions also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Our customers also may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, impairing their ability to pay us, which could have an adverse effect on results of operation if such events cause delays in collection or write-offs of receivables due to customer insolvencies. Volatility of credit markets could adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase our cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. These conditions could make it more expensive for us to conduct our ongoing operations and may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete acquisitions. We rely on several key distributors in marketing our products. The majority of our sales are through distributors. These distributors carry the products of competitors along with our products. Our largest distributor customer, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 16% of our revenue in 2008. If we were to lose a key distributor, our revenue and profits would likely be reduced, at least temporarily. In the past, we have seen a few distributors acquired and consolidated. If there were further consolidation of the electronics and cable distributors, this could have an effect on our relationships with these distributors. It could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which would temporarily depress our revenue. We have also experienced financial failure of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. The current global economic downturn raises the potential of our customers incurring financial difficulties (including bankruptcy), which would adversely impact our results of operation as a result of lower customer sales and write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable. We may be unable to successfully implement our strategic plan. Our strategic plan is designed to improve revenues and profitability, reduce costs and improve working capital management. We are taking various measures to achieve these goals, including focusing on higher margin products through product portfolio management, increasing sales to our largest customers and channel partners, increasing our share of the market through organic growth initiatives, adjusting our manufacturing operations by reducing or increasing plant output, acquiring businesses, moving production to low cost regions, expanding our business in emerging markets and recruiting and retaining talented associates. There is a risk that we may not be successful in executing these measures to achieve the expected results. For example, we may be unable to reduce costs to 10 Table of Contents anticipated levels to achieve the benefits from moving to low cost regions, product quality may be adversely impacted as a result of these manufacturing initiatives, and we may not improve revenues because of lower sales of legacy products, lower sales from acquired companies, the inability to capture increased market share, or the inability to acquire businesses to augment revenues. Any change in the level of economic activity in our major geographical markets may have an impact on the level of demand for our products and our resulting revenue and earnings. The demand for many of our products is economically sensitive and will vary with general economic activity, trends in nonresidential construction, investment in manufacturing facilities and automation, demand for information technology equipment, and other economic factors. We may encounter difficulties in realigning manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products. As part of our Lean(1) culture to pursue continuous improvement, we periodically realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to improve our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities. There are significant risks inherent in implementing these initiatives, including that: • we have adequate production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; • we can effectively deal with employee issues arising from a plant shut down or reduction in workforce (especially at our European facilities that are typically unionized or require that we consult or obtain approval of representatives of the workforce before taking such action); • we maintain product quality as a result of shifting capacity; • we can successfully remove, transport and re-install equipment; and • we have trained personnel at the new site. If these initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer and employee relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. (1) Lean refers to a business management system that strives to create value for customers and deliver that value to the right place, at the right time, and in the right quantities while reducing or eliminating waste from all processes. Changes in the price and availability of raw materials we use could be detrimental to our profitability. Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our products. Over the past three years, the prices of metals, particularly copper, have been highly volatile. Copper rose rapidly in price for much of this period and remains a volatile commodity. Prices of other materials we use, such as PVC and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also been volatile. Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products. The majority of our products are sold through distribution, and we manage the pricing of these products through published price lists which we update from time to time, with new prices taking effect a few weeks after they are announced. Some OEM contracts have provisions for passing through raw material cost changes, generally with a lag of a few weeks to three months. If we are unable to raise prices sufficiently to recover our material costs, our earnings will be reduced. If we raise our prices but competitors raise their prices less, we may lose sales, and our earnings will be reduced. If the price of copper were to decline, we might be forced to reduce prices, which could have a negative effect on revenue, and we may be required, according to the terms of contracts with certain of our distributors, to reimburse them for a portion 11 Table of Contents of the price they paid for our products in their inventory. We believe the supply of raw materials (copper, plastics, and other materials) is adequate and we do not expect any substantial interruption of supply or shortage of materials. If such a supply interruption or shortage were to occur, however, this could have a negative effect on revenue and earnings. The global cable, connectivity and wireless industries are highly competitive. We compete with other manufacturers of cable, wire, connectivity, wireless and related products based in North America, Europe and Asia. These companies compete on price, reputation and quality, product technology and characteristics, and terms. Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, and other actions, could have a negative effect on our revenue and profitability. Well established global manufacturers of switches and automation equipment could decide to market Industrial Ethernet switches and capture market share from us. If one or more large companies with expertise in Ethernet switches or industrial automation were to pursue a leading position in the Industrial Ethernet market, we might not be able to maintain our market share. Some potential competitors have very well-known brands, ample resources for product development, and advantageous commercial relationships. If our position in this market eroded, a significant element of our strategy for improving revenue growth and profitability would be jeopardized. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate. We have a complex international tax profile and significant net operating losses and other carryforwards. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the extent we are able to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various countries in which we do business. Our mix of income and losses in these jurisdictions determines our effective tax rate. Relatively, more income in higher tax rate jurisdictions or relatively, more losses in lower tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income. If we generate losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available, our effective income tax rate will increase. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Changes in accounting rules and interpretation of these rules may affect our reported earnings. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are complex and require interpretation. These principles change from time to time, and such changes may result in changes to our reported income without any change in our underlying cash flow. Because we do business in many countries, our results of operations are affected by changes in currency exchange rates and are subject to political and economic uncertainties. More than half of our sales are outside the United States. Other than the United States dollar, the principal currencies to which we are exposed through our manufacturing operations and sales are the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the Chinese yuan, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, and the British pound. In most cases, we have revenues and costs in the same currency, thereby reducing our overall currency risk. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the results of our non-U.S. operations are translated at a lower exchange rate and thus into lower reported earnings. We have manufacturing facilities in China, Canada, Mexico and several European countries. We rely on suppliers in many countries, including China. Our foreign operations are subject to economic and political risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad such as economic and political destabilization, land use risks, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, and adverse foreign tax laws. 12 Table of Contents Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business. Some of our employees, primarily outside the United States, are members of collective bargaining units. We believe that our relations with employees are generally good. However, if there were a dispute with one of these bargaining units, the affected operations could be interrupted resulting in lost revenues, lost profit contribution, and customer dissatisfaction. If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees could have an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available, or if we do identify replacements, that the integration of those replacements will not be disruptive to our business. Our strategic plan includes further acquisitions. Our ability to successfully acquire businesses may decline if the competition among potential buyers increases or the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of acquired businesses. Should we fail to integrate their operations, our results of operations and profitability could be negatively impacted. Aside from the challenges of realigning existing operations, we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses and future acquisitions might not meet our performance expectations. Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues and retention of key personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote a considerable amount of time to the integration process, which could decrease the amount of time we have to manage the other businesses. Some of the businesses we acquired or are interested in acquiring involve more complex technology and shorter product life cycles than are typical for Belden, and we might not be able to properly evaluate and develop the technology. We cannot make assurances that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate operations. The failure to do so could have a negative effect on results of operations or profitability. The process of integrating operations could cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of acquired businesses. We are subject to current environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently, and may in the future be, held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of hazardous substances, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. Changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. 13 Table of Contents If our goodwill or other intangible assets become further impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually, or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values are not recoverable. We incurred significant charges in 2008 for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to do so again in future periods, due to the continuing global recession or otherwise. Such a charge would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flow. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. Our markets are characterized by the introduction of increasingly capable products, including fiber optic and wireless signal transmission solutions that compete with the copper cable solutions that comprise the majority of our revenue. The relative costs and merits of copper cable solutions, fiber optic cable solutions, and wireless solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate such changes. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. Competing technologies could cause the obsolescence of many of our products. See the discussion above in Part I, Item 1, under Importance of New Products and Product Improvements; Impact of Technological Change; Impact of Acquisitions. We have defined benefit pension plans that are not fully funded. We have defined benefit pension plans in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. The cash funding requirements for these plans depends on the financial performance of the funds’ assets, actuarial life expectancies, discount rates and other factors. The fair value of the assets in the plans may be less than the projected benefits owed by us. In most years, we are required to contribute cash to fund the pension plans, and the amount of funding required may vary significantly. Our target asset allocation for the investment of assets for our ongoing pension plans is 42% in debt securities and 58% in equity securities. We expect to contribute more than $20 million to our ongoing pension plans in 2009. Future contributions we may make to fund our ongoing plans may be significant if we continue with our current debt/equity target allocation for these plans in light of the depressed equities market caused by the current economic slowdown. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We might have difficulty protecting our intellectual property from use by competitors, or competitors might accuse us of violating their intellectual property rights. Disagreements about patents and intellectual property rights occur in our served markets, especially for wireless. There, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. Due to the rapid pace of technological change in wireless industry, much of wireless business relies on proprietary technologies of third parties, and to the extent our products may need these technologies, we may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. Potential problems with our information systems could interfere with our business and operations. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for processing customer orders, shipping of products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees and otherwise running our business. Any disruption in our information systems and those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we 14 Table of Contents may need to enhance our information systems to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new information systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise. Any disruptions impacting our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could adversely affect our business in a number of respects. If we are unable to successfully implement information systems enhancements, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. This list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other considerations besides those mentioned above might cause our actual results to differ from expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 