ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors inherent in Exactech’s business, they may include those listed below, which should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties: • Exactech is subject to extensive government regulation. Failure to obtain government approvals and clearances for new products and/or modifications to existing products on a timely basis would likely have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of Exactech. A significant recall of one or more of Exactech’s products could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s business and financial results. Exactech cannot provide assurance that such clearances will be granted or that review by government authority will not involve delays that could materially adversely effect Exactech’s revenues and earnings. • Exactech faces uncertainty relating to the availability of third-party reimbursement for its products. The failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of Exactech’s products to obtain sufficient reimbursement from health care payors for procedures in which Exactech’s products are used or adverse changes in governmental and private payors’ policies toward reimbursement for such procedures could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s revenues and earnings. • Exactech is required to incur significant expenditures of resources in order to maintain relatively high levels of inventory. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, Exactech is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. In the event that a substantial portion of the Company’s inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings due to the resulting costs associated with the inventory impairment charges. 11 Table of Contents • Exactech relies upon third party suppliers for its raw materials and supplies. Should the availability and on time delivery of raw materials and supplies needed in the production of its products and services become unreliable or the costs of such increases significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings due to the resulting increased costs of production. • Exactech conducts business in a highly competitive industry. The orthopaedic implant industry is subject to competition in the following areas: product features and design, innovation, service, the ability to maintain new product flow, relationships with key orthopaedic surgeons and hospitals, strength of distribution network, and price. In addition, Exactech faces competition for regional sales representatives within the medical community. Exactech cannot provide assurance that it will be able to compete successfully. • Exactech’s success is partially dependent upon its ability to successfully market new and improved products and the market acceptance of those products. The failure of its products to gain market acceptance would be likely to have a material adverse effect on its revenues and earnings. Exactech cannot provide assurance that new or improved products will gain market acceptance. • Exactech is subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration, either directly or indirectly, in return for, or to induce: referral of an individual for a service or product for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or another government sponsored health care program, or purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for, or recommending the purchase, lease or order of, any service or product for which payment may be made by a government-sponsored health care program. Those regulators may challenge or review Exactech’s current or future activities under these laws, which would be costly and time consuming, and could increase operating costs, reduce revenues and cash flows. • Exactech holds patents on specific designs and processes and relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Exactech cannot provide assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford the Company, that those confidential or proprietary information agreements will not be breached, that the parties from whom Exactech has licensed or otherwise acquired patent rights, proprietary rights and technology have full rights to those patent rights and technology, or that Exactech’s trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. • Exactech must devote substantial resources to research and development. Exactech cannot provide assurance that it will be successful in developing competitive new products and/or improving existing products so that its products remain competitive and avoid obsolescence. • Exactech is subject to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, marketing and sale of orthopaedic implants and surgical instrumentation. Exactech cannot provide assurance it will not face claims resulting in substantial liability for which Exactech is not fully insured. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against Exactech of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings and cash flows due the cost of defending itself against such a claim. • Exactech is subject to the risk of an inability to secure and maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Product liability insurance premiums are volatile. Should premiums continue to increase significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on Exactech’s earnings and cash flows due to the increase in operating costs that would result. • Exactech’s products, including products that are manufactured by third parties but distributed by us, may be subject to recall or product liability claims. These products are used in medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If these products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we or the third party manufacturer of these products may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to 12 Table of Contents withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of these products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 