ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Our exposure to catastrophic events and other exposures that we cover could cause our financial results to vary significantly from one period to the next. Our largest product based on total gross premiums written is property catastrophe reinsurance. We also sell lines of specialty reinsurance and certain Individual Risk products that are exposed to catastrophe risk. We therefore have a large overall exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, winter storms, freezes, floods, fires, tornados, hailstorms, drought and other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. As a result, our operating results have historically been, and we expect will continue to be, significantly affected by relatively few events of a large magnitude. We expect claims from catastrophic events to cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year; moreover, catastrophic claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to write new business could also be affected. We believe that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, particularly along coastal regions, and the effects of inflation may continue to increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. From time to time, we expect to have greater exposures in one or more specific geographic areas than our overall share of the worldwide market would unilaterally suggest. Accordingly, when and if catastrophes occur in these areas, we may experience relatively more severe net negative impacts from such events than our competitors. In particular, the Company has historically had a relatively large percentage of its coverage exposures concentrated in the state of Florida. Through Renaissance Trading and REAL, we sell certain financial products primarily to address weather risks, and engage in certain weather, energy and commodity derivatives trading activities. The trading markets for these derivatives are generally linked to energy and agriculture commodities, weather and other natural phenomena. We expect our results from these activities will be subject to volatility, both potentially as a result of the occurrence or non-occurrence of the event or events which might trigger counterparty payments under these contracts, and as a result of the potential for variance in the reportable fair value of these contracts between periods as a result of a wide number of potential factors. While our current portfolio of such derivative contracts is not material to our consolidated results taken as a whole, and is currently of comparably short duration, it is possible that our results from these activities will increase on an absolute or relative basis over time, and that the duration of the derivative contracts in this portfolio will lengthen in the future. We may fail to execute our strategy, which would impair our future financial results. Historically, our principal product has been property catastrophe reinsurance. As we have expanded and continue to expand into other lines of business, we have been and will be presented with new and expanded challenges and risks which we may not manage successfully. Businesses in early stages of development present substantial business, financial and operational risks and may suffer significant losses. For example, our current and potential future expansion may require us to develop new client and customer relationships, supplement existing or build new operating procedures, hire staff, develop and install management information and other systems, as well as take numerous other steps to implement our strategies. If we fail to continue to develop the necessary infrastructure, or otherwise fail to execute our strategy, our results from these newer lines of business will likely suffer, perhaps substantially, and our future financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, our expansion into newer lines of business may place increased demands on our financial, managerial and human resources. For example, we may need to attract additional professionals, and to the extent we are unable to attract such additional professionals, our existing financial, managerial and human resources may be strained. Our future profitability depends in part on our ability to further develop our resources and effectively manage expansion, and our inability to do so may impair our future financial results. It is also possible that a determination to retract or diminish an initiative we had previously determined to incubate or explore could be poorly executed, leading to restructuring or other losses, or to executive distraction, exceeding our estimates. A decline in the ratings assigned to our financial strength may adversely impact our business, perhaps materially so. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of reinsurers and insurers, such as Renaissance Reinsurance and certain of our other operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. These ratings are based upon 36 Table of Contents criteria established by the rating agencies. Periodically, the rating agencies evaluate us and may downgrade or withdraw their financial strength ratings in the future if we do not continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance or insurance companies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. These ratings are subject to periodic review and may be revised or revoked, by the agencies which issue them. In addition, from time to time one or more rating agencies have effected changes in their capital models and rating methodologies, which have generally served to increase the amounts of capital required to support the ratings, and it is possible that legislation arising as a result of the ongoing financial crisis may result in additional changes. Negative ratings actions in the future could have an adverse effect on our ability to fully realize the market opportunities we currently expect to participate in. In addition, it is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain provisions permitting our customers to cancel coverage pro-rata if our relevant operating subsidiary is downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise this right would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, in the event of a downgrade, it is not possible to predict in advance the extent to which this cancellation right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be material. To date, we are not aware that we have experienced such a cancellation. Our ability to compete with other reinsurers and insurers, and our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected by any such ratings downgrade. For example, following a ratings downgrade we might lose customers to more highly rated competitors or retain a lower share of the business of our customers. For the current ratings of certain of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, refer to “Item 1. Business, Ratings”. Because we depend on a few insurance and reinsurance brokers in our Reinsurance segment and several third party program managers in our Individual Risk segment for a preponderance of our revenue, loss of business provided by them could adversely affect us. Our Reinsurance business markets insurance and reinsurance products worldwide exclusively through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Three brokerage firms accounted for 90.1% of our Reinsurance segment gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2009. Subsidiaries and affiliates of AON Benfield, Marsh Inc. and the Willis Group accounted for approximately 58.7%, 20.9% and 10.5%, respectively, of our Reinsurance segment gross premiums written in 2009. Our Individual Risk business markets a significant portion of its insurance and reinsurance products through third party program managers. In recent years, our Individual Risk business has similarly experienced an increased concentration of production from a smaller number of intermediaries. Third party program managers accounted for 35.7% of our Individual Risk segment gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of a substantial portion of the business provided by our brokers and/or third party program managers would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to market our products could decline as a result of any loss of the business provided by these brokers and/or third party program managers and it is possible that our premiums written would decrease. The terms of the Federal Multiple Peril Crop Insurance Program may change and adversely impact us. We are one of 15 companies that currently participate in the MPCI program sponsored by the RMA. In recent years, crop insurance premiums, which are primarily driven by MPCI, have become an increasingly larger portion of our business, totaling $290.3 million of gross premiums written in 2009, and representing 54.7% of the total gross premiums written in our Individual Risk segment in 2009. In June 2008, we purchased the assets of Agro National, LLC, a managing general underwriter that has been producing MPCI business on our behalf since 2004, for a purchase price of $80.5 million, and we have goodwill and intangible assets of $58.1 million on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009 as a result of this acquisition. The RMA has currently proposed several changes to the SRA that, if ultimately adopted, would adversely affect the financial results of MPCI insurers such as ours, beginning in 2011. If the SRA is finalized as drafted, we would receive lower expense reimbursements and would be likely to retain less of the underwriting profit we generate, which would negatively impact the profitability of our MPCI business, perhaps substantially or materially 37 Table of Contents so. While we might try to adjust to such changes by reducing costs, altering service levels, or taking other actions, it is possible any remedies or mitigating measures we might pursue would be insufficient or that we would not succeed in their execution, and the MPCI business could prove to be unattractive or unprofitable. If the RMA adopts the currently proposed changes to the SRA, this could reduce the probability that our crop insurance business is successful, or possibly result in us electing not to participate in the MPCI program in 2011, any of which in turn could require us to impair all, or a portion, of the carrying value of the goodwill and intangible assets we have recorded in connection with the acquisition of Agro National, LLC. Industry feedback to the draft of the SRA has to date not been positive and the RMA is expected to circulate further drafts of the agreement before it becomes final. However, we cannot predict what changes the final version will have, if any, and therefore what impact the changes will have on our future profitability, or whether we would enter into the new SRA for Reinsurance Year 2011. Our utilization of brokers, third party program managers and other third parties to support our business exposes us to operational and financial risks. Our Individual Risk operations rely largely on third party program managers, and other agents and brokers participating in our programs, to produce and service a substantial portion of our operations in this segment. In these arrangements, we typically grant the program manager the right to bind us to newly issued and renewal insurance policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provide and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should our third party program managers issue policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for such policies. Although we would intend to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our program manager would be unable to substantially indemnify us for their contractual breach. We also rely on our third party program managers, third party administrators or other third parties we retain, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. We could also be exposed to the program manager’s or their producer’s operational risk, for example, but not limited to, contract wording errors, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third party administrators we have retained to manage much of the claims activity that we expect to arise in our Individual Risk operations. Although we have implemented monitoring and other oversight protocols, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate all of these exposures. We are also subject to the risk that our successful third party program managers will not renew their programs with us. Although our contracts are generally not for defined terms, generally either party can cancel the contract in a relatively short period of time. While we believe our arrangements offer numerous benefits to our program participants, we cannot assure you we will retain the programs that produce business we believe to be attractive or that these programs or the underlying insureds will renew with us. Failure to retain or replace the third party program managers, or the program manager’s failure to retain or replace their producers, would impair our ability to execute our operational strategy, and our financial results could be adversely affected. With respect to our Reinsurance operations we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under our reinsurance contracts and, accordingly, like other reinsurers, are heavily dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by our ceding companies. We are therefore subject to the risk that our customers may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured, or that the premiums ceded to us will not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume, perhaps materially so. Our claims and claim expense reserves are subject to inherent uncertainties. Our claims and claim expense reserves reflect our estimates using actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. Although we use actuarial and computer models as well as historical reinsurance and insurance industry loss statistics, we also rely heavily on management’s experience and judgment to assist in the establishment of appropriate claims and claim expense reserves. However, because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Our estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, as loss trends and claims inflation impact future payments, or as current laws or interpretations thereof change. 38 Table of Contents Our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk operations are expected to produce claims which at times can only be resolved through lengthy and unpredictable litigation. The measures required to resolve such claims, including the adjudication process, present more reserve challenges than property losses (which tend to be reported comparatively more promptly and to be settled within a relatively shorter period of time). Actual net claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. We expect that some of our assumptions or estimates will prove to be inaccurate, and that our actual net claims and claim expenses paid will differ, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. To the extent that our actual claims and claim expenses exceed our expectations, we would be required to increase claims and claim expense reserves. This would reduce our net income by a corresponding amount in the period in which the deficiency is identified. To the extent that our actual claims and claim expenses are lower than our expectations, we would be required to decrease claims and claim expense reserves and this would increase our net income. Estimates of losses are based on a review of potentially exposed contracts, information reported by and discussions with counterparties, and our estimate of losses related to those contracts and are subject to change as more information is reported and becomes available. As an example, our estimates of losses from catastrophic events, such as the 2008 hurricanes Gustav and Ike, and the 2005 hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, are based on factors including currently available information derived from the Company’s claims information from certain customers and brokers, industry assessments of losses from the events, proprietary models, and the terms and conditions of our contracts. Due to the size and unusual complexity of the legal and claims issues relating to these events, particularly hurricanes Katrina and Ike, meaningful uncertainty remains regarding total covered losses for the insurance industry and, accordingly, several of the key assumptions underlying our loss estimates. In addition, actual losses from these events may increase if our reinsurers or other obligors fail to meet their obligations to us. Our actual losses from these events will likely vary, perhaps materially, from these current estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in reserving for such losses, including the nature of the available information, the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by customers and brokers, the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the effects of any demand surge on claims activity and complex coverage and other legal issues. Unlike the loss reserves of U.S. insurers, the loss reserves of our Bermuda-licensed insurers, including Renaissance Reinsurance, DaVinci and Glencoe, are not regularly examined by insurance regulators, although, as registered Bermuda insurers, we are required to submit opinions of our approved loss reserve specialist with the annual statutory financial returns of our Bermuda-licensed insurers with regard to their respective loss and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified actuary, must be approved by the BMA. The emergence of matters which may impact certain of our coverages, such as the asserted trend toward potentially significant global warming and the recent financial crisis, could cause us to underestimate our exposures and potentially adversely impact our financial results, perhaps significantly. In our Reinsurance business, we use analytic and modeling capabilities that help us to assess the risk and return of each reinsurance contract in relation to our overall portfolio of reinsurance contracts. For catastrophe-exposed business in our Individual Risk segment, we also seek to utilize proprietary modeling tools that have been developed in conjunction with the modeling and other resources utilized in our Reinsurance operations. See “Item 1. Business, Underwriting and Enterprise Risk Management.” In general, our techniques for evaluating catastrophe risk are much better developed than those for other classes of risk in businesses that we have entered into recently or may enter into in the future. Our models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. Accordingly, our models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. We believe, and believe the consensus view of current scientific studies substantiates, that changes in climate conditions, primarily global temperatures and expected sea levels, are likely to increase the severity and possibly the frequency of natural catastrophes relative to the historical experience over the past 100 years. We expect that this may increase claims under our property and casualty lines of business, particularly with respect to properties located in coastal areas and operations covered by our multi-peril crop insurance line of business, among 39 Table of Contents others. While a substantial portion of our insureds fall into categories that may be adversely impacted by climate change, we have taken certain measures, to the extent permissible by law and prevailing market conditions, to mitigate against such losses by giving consideration to these risks in our underwriting decisions. We continuously monitor and adjust, as we believe appropriate, our risk management models to reflect our judgment of how to interpret current developments and information such as these studies. However, it is possible that, even after these assessments, we will have underestimated the frequency or severity of hurricanes or other catastrophes. To the extent broad environmental factors, exacerbated by climate change or otherwise, lead to increases in likely insured losses, particularly if those losses exceed expectations and the prior estimates of market participants, regulators or other stakeholders, the markets and clients we serve may be disrupted and adversely impacted, and we may be adversely affected, directly or indirectly. Further, certain of our investments such as cat-linked securities and property catastrophe managed joint ventures related to hurricane coverage, could also be adversely impacted by climate change. Changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, may have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in some parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Our specialty reinsurance portfolio is also exposed to emerging risks arising from the ongoing financial crisis, including with respect to a potential increase of claims in directors & officers, errors & omissions, mortgage valuation, surety, casualty clash and other lines of business. The ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although there have been some indicators of stabilization, the U.S. and numerous other leading markets around the world continue to experience significant recessionary conditions, and we believe meaningful risk remains of potential further deterioration in economic conditions, including substantial and continuing financial market disruptions. While many governments, including the U.S. federal government, have taken substantial steps to stabilize economic conditions in an effort to increase liquidity and capital availability, if economic conditions do not stabilize, or deteriorate further, the business environment in our principal markets would be further adversely affected, which accordingly could adversely affect demand for the products sold by us or our customers. In addition, during an economic downturn we believe our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with agents, brokers, customers, retrocessionaires, capital providers, parties associated with our investment portfolio, among others, is likely to be increased. Moreover, we continue to monitor the risk that our principal markets will experience increased inflationary conditions, which would, among other things, cause loss costs to increase, and impact the performance of our investment portfolio. The onset, duration and severity of an inflationary period cannot be estimated with precision. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that may experience significant market valuation fluctuations. Although we invest primarily in highly liquid securities in order to ensure our ability to pay valid claims in a prompt manner, we do hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as our alternative investments and bank loan fund investments. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of our normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. At times, the reported value of our liquid and relatively illiquid types of investments and, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. A reduction in market liquidity may make it difficult to value certain of our securities as trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 40 Table of Contents The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. A decline in our investment performance could reduce our profitability and hinder our ability to pay claims promptly in accordance with our strategy. We have historically derived a significant portion of our income from our invested assets, which are comprised of, among other things, fixed maturity securities, such as bonds, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and investments in bank loan funds, hedge funds and private equity partnerships. Accordingly, our financial results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. Additionally, with respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. Our invested assets have grown over the years and have come to effect a comparably greater contribution to our financial results. Accordingly, a failure to successfully execute our investment strategy could have a material adverse effect on our overall results. In the event of a significant or total loss in our investment portfolio, the Company’s ability to pay any claims promptly in accordance with our strategy could be adversely affected. The market value of our fixed maturity investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates and widening credit spreads. Increases in interest rates could cause the market value of our investment portfolio to decrease, perhaps substantially. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could reduce our investment yield, which would reduce our overall profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity. A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to other investments which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity securities and short term investments. These other investments include private equity partnerships, hedge fund investments, senior secured bank loan funds and catastrophe bonds and are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The fair value of certain of these investments is generally established on the basis of the net valuation criteria established by the managers of such investments. These net asset valuations are determined based upon the valuation criteria established by the governing documents of the investments. Such valuations may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had ready markets existed for the shares, partnership interests or notes of the investments. Many of the investments are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales which are determined by the governing documents and limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short term. These investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. In addition, we typically do not hold the underlying securities of these investments in our custody accounts, as a result, we generally do not have the ability to quantify the risks associated with these investments in the same manner for which we have for our fixed maturity securities. The performance of these investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and the investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective or that such managers will fail to follow our investment guidelines. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk, including with respect to reinsurance brokers. In accordance with industry practice, we pay virtually all amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the insurers that have reinsured a 41 Table of Contents portion of their liabilities with us (we refer to these insurers as ceding insurers). Likewise, premiums due to us by ceding insurers are virtually all paid to brokers, who then pass such amounts on to us. In many jurisdictions, if a broker were to fail to make such a payment to a ceding insurer, we would remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in many jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid by the cedants and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, in connection with the settlement of reinsurance balances, we assume a substantial degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world. We are also exposed to the credit risk of our customers, who, pursuant to their contracts with us, frequently pay us over time. Our premiums receivable at December 31, 2009 totaled $589.8 million, and these amounts are generally not collateralized. To the extent such customers become unable to pay future premiums, we would be required to recognize a downward adjustment to our premiums receivable in our financial statements. In 2009, we increased our allowance for potentially uncollectible premiums due to us, and we cannot assure you that such premiums will ever be collected or that additional amounts will not be required to be written down in 2010, or future periods. As a result of the ongoing global economic downturn, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with agents, brokers, customers, retrocessionaires, capital providers, parties associated with our investment portfolio and others has increased, perhaps materially so. We are exposed to counterparty credit risks in connection with our energy related trading business. We undertake energy related trading activities through our operating subsidiaries, including Renaissance Trading and REAL, where counterparty credit risk becomes a relevant factor. These operating subsidiaries execute weather, energy and commodity derivative transactions where the value of the derivatives at any point in time is dependent upon not only the market but also the viability of the counterparty. The failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties has the potential to expose us to risk of loss in these situations. Financial institutions, energy companies and hedge funds have historically been our most significant counterparties. The ongoing instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, and we are exposed to these counterparty risks. Although our operating subsidiaries have credit risk management policies and procedures, we cannot assure you that any of the policies or procedures will be effective. While many of the original trading positions established in our energy related trading business are partially or substantially hedged, the effectiveness of those hedges depends on the willingness and ability to pay of the parties with whom we establish the hedge positions. The failure of our policies and procedures, or the failure of one or more of our counterparties, could result in losses that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Retrocessional reinsurance may become unavailable on acceptable terms. As part of our risk management, we buy reinsurance for our own account. This type of insurance when purchased to protect reinsurance companies is known as “retrocessional reinsurance.” Our primary insurance companies also buy reinsurance from third parties. From time to time, market conditions (including the ongoing financial crisis) have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such retrocessional reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms as favorable to us as in the past. This could limit the amount of business we are willing to write, or decrease the protection available to us as a result of large loss events. When we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance for our own account, the insolvency, inability or reluctance of any of our reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. Generally, we believe that the “willingness to pay” of some reinsurers and retrocessionaires is declining, and that the overall industry ability to pay has also declined due to the recent financial crisis and other factors. This risk may be more significant to us at present than at most times in the past. At December 31, 2009, we had recorded $194.2 million of reinsurance recoverables, net of a valuation allowance of $7.6 million for uncollectible recoverables. We cannot assure you that such recoverables will ever be collected or that additional amounts will not be required to be written down in 2010, or future periods. A large portion of our reinsurance recoverables are concentrated with a relatively small number of reinsurers. The risk of such concentration of retrocessional coverage may be increased by recent and future consolidation within the industry. 42 Table of Contents Emerging claim and coverage issues, or other litigation, could adversely affect us. Unanticipated developments in the law as well as changes in social and environmental conditions could potentially result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance and reinsurance contracts. These developments and changes may adversely affect us, perhaps materially so. For example, we could be subject to developments that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. With respect to our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk operations, these legal, social and environmental changes may not become apparent until some point in time after their occurrence. For example, we could be deemed liable for losses arising out of a matter, such as the potential for industry losses arising out of an avian flu pandemic, that we had not anticipated or had attempted to contractually exclude. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will limit enforceability of policy language or not issue a ruling adverse to us. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by the increased willingness of some market participants to dispute insurance and reinsurance contract and policy wordings. Alternatively, potential efforts by us to exclude such exposures could, if successful, reduce the market’s acceptance of our related products. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our exposure to this uncertainty will grow as our “long-tail” casualty businesses grow, because in these lines claims can typically be made for many years, making them more susceptible to these trends than our traditional catastrophe business, which is typically more “short-tail.” In addition, we could be adversely affected by the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting participants in the property-liability insurance industry in purported class action litigation relating to claim handling and other practices. While we continually seek to improve the effectiveness of our contracts and claims capabilities, we may fail to mitigate our exposure to these growing uncertainties. The loss of key senior members of management could adversely affect us. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain our senior officers. The loss of services of members of senior management in the future, and the uncertain transition of new members of our senior management team, may strain our ability to execute our growth initiatives. The loss of one or more of our senior officers could adversely impact our business, by, for example, making it more difficult to retain customers or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing officer. In general, the loss of the services of any members of our current senior management team, potentially including the executive retirements announced in January 2010, may adversely affect our business, perhaps materially so. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. In addition, our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract and retain a staff of qualified underwriters and service personnel. The location of our global headquarters in Bermuda may impede our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of Permanent Residents’ Certificates and holders of Working Residents’ Certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. Substantially all of our officers are working in Bermuda under work permits that will expire over the next three years. The Bermuda government could refuse to extend these work permits, which would adversely impact us. In addition, a Bermuda government policy limits the duration of work permits to a total of six years, which is subject to certain exemptions only for key employees. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to five years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. If any of our senior officers were not permitted to remain in Bermuda, or if we experience delays or failures to obtain permits for a number of our professional staff, our operations could be disrupted and our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result. U.S. taxing authorities could contend that one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries are subject to U.S. corporate income tax, as a result of changes in law or regulations, or otherwise. If the IRS were to contend successfully that one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., such subsidiary would, to the extent not exempted from tax by the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty, be subject to U.S. corporate income tax on that portion of its net income treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, as well as the U.S. corporate branch profits tax. Although we would vigorously resist such a contention, if we were ultimately held to be subject to taxation, our earnings would correspondingly decline. 43 Table of Contents In addition, benefits of the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty which may limit any such tax to income attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries in the U.S. are only available to any of such subsidiaries if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. Finally, it is unclear whether the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty (assuming satisfaction of the beneficial ownership test) applies to income other than premium income, such as investment income. Changes in U.S. tax law or regulations could increase the costs of our products and services or otherwise reduce our profitability. Congress has recently conducted hearings relating to the tax treatment of offshore insurance and is reported to be considering legislation that would adversely affect reinsurance between affiliates and offshore insurance and reinsurance more generally. In 2009, U.S. Rep. Richard Neal introduced one such proposal, H.R. 3424 (the “Neal Bill”), which provides that foreign insurers and reinsurers would be capped in deducting reinsurance premiums ceded from U.S. units to offshore affiliates. The Neal Bill, which was referred to the House Ways and Means Committee, would limit deductions for related party reinsurance cessions to the average percentage of premium ceded to unrelated reinsurers (determined in reference to individual business lines). In the first quarter of 2010, the current administration released its 2010 initial budget, which included a proposal to raise revenue by enacting increased taxation on international reinsurance via means which appeared to have similarities with the Neal Bill. We can provide no assurance that this legislation or similar legislation will not be adopted. We believe that passage of such legislation would adversely affect us, perhaps materially. In addition, in March 2009, U.S. Senator Carl Levin and Rep. Lloyd Doggett introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate and House, respectively, entitled the “Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act” (S. 506). If enacted, this legislation would, among other things, cause to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. tax purposes generally, entities whose shares are publicly traded on an established securities market, or whose gross assets are $50.0 million or more, if the “management and control” of such a corporation is, directly or indirectly, treated as occurring primarily within the U.S. The proposed legislation provides that a corporation will be so treated if substantially all of the executive officers and senior management of the corporation who exercise day-to-day responsibility for making decisions involving strategic, financial, and operational policies of the corporation are located primarily within the U.S. In addition, among other things, the legislation would establish presumptions for entities and transactions in jurisdictions deemed to be “offshore secrecy jurisdictions” and would provide a list of such jurisdictions. To date, this legislation has not been approved by either the House of Representatives or the Senate. However, we can provide no assurance that this legislation or similar legislation will not ultimately be adopted. While we do not believe that the legislation would impact us, it is possible that an adopted bill would include additional or expanded provisions which could negatively impact us, or that the interpretation or enforcement of the current proposal, if enacted, would be more expansive or adverse than we currently estimate. In 2008, the Internal Revenue Service released a revenue ruling (Rev. Rul. 2008-15), in which it publicly adopted the position that the federal excise tax imposed on insurance or reinsurance premiums paid to certain non-U.S. taxpayers (the “FET”) applies to reinsurance contracts between foreign insurance companies. Simultaneously, the IRS issued Announcement 2008-18, announcing a voluntary compliance initiative under which eligible non-U.S. insurers, reinsurers, and other agents, solicitors, and brokers may avoid IRS examination with respect to the FET. Under Section 4371 of the Internal Revenue Code, premiums on insurance policies, indemnity bonds, annuity contracts, and reinsurance contracts with respect to risks located in the U.S. paid by a U.S. person or by a non-U.S. person engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. are subject to the FET. The FET is imposed at the rate of 4% on casualty insurance and indemnity bonds; 1% on life, health, and annuity contracts; and 1% on reinsurance. The IRS has authority to collect the tax not only from the person paying the premium but also from any person who signs, sells or issues documents connected with the policy. In the pronouncements noted above, the IRS took the position that the FET cascades through reinsurance contracts on U.S. risks between foreign insurers. While commentators and market participants have questioned the statutory and jurisdictional basis for the IRS’s position, the IRS has continued to assert that, under this cascading theory, if a foreign insurance company insures or reinsures a U.S. risk that would be subject to the FET, and then obtains reinsurance for that risk from a second foreign insurance company, the FET applies to the reinsurance contract between the two foreign parties (unless a treaty exemption applies). Further, the IRS has asserted that FET applies even where the first foreign insurance company is exempt from FET under an applicable treaty. We did not elect to participate in the voluntary compliance initiative, and it is possible that the IRS would disagree with 44 Table of Contents our position with respect to FET and the IRS’s cascade theory. In 2009, we were contacted by the IRS and asked to provide information with respect to the FET filings effected by Renaissance Reinsurance in 2008. While we believe our FET position is supported by a thorough analysis of relevant statutory and case law, and believe that the imposition of the IRS position would not give rise to material financial obligations, it is possible the IRS will continue to maintain its position and could prevail in any audit or other controversy or that the financial consequences of the IRS’s position would be greater than we currently estimate. We are unable to predict the effect that current governmental proposals could have on the Company. The current administration and Congress have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to universal healthcare, financial regulation reform, including regulation of the OTC derivatives market, the establishment of a single-state system of licensure for U.S. and foreign reinsurers, executive compensation and others. We continue to carefully monitor relevant proposals and believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on us. Regulatory challenges in the U.S. or elsewhere to our Bermuda operations’ claims of exemption from insurance regulation could restrict our ability to operate, increase our costs, or otherwise adversely impact us. Renaissance Reinsurance, DaVinci and Top Layer Re are not licensed or admitted in any jurisdiction except Bermuda. Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci and Top Layer Re each conduct business only from their principal offices in Bermuda and do not maintain an office in the U.S. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework continues to be subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and various states within the U.S. If our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies. Moreover, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the future with respect to competitors that are licensed and admitted in U.S. jurisdictions. Among other things, jurisdictions in the U.S. do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted. Our contracts generally require us to post a letter of credit or provide other security after a reinsured reports a claim. In order to post these letters of credit, issuing banks generally require collateral. It is possible that the European Union or other countries might adopt a similar regime in the future, or that U.S. rules could be altered in a way that treats Bermuda-based companies disproportionately. Any such development, or if we are unable to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, could significantly and negatively affect our operations. Glencoe and Lantana are currently each eligible, non-admitted excess and surplus lines insurers in 48 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are each subject to certain regulatory and reporting requirements of these jurisdictions. However, neither Glencoe nor Lantana is admitted or licensed in any U.S. jurisdiction; moreover, Glencoe only conducts business from Bermuda. Accordingly, the scope of Glencoe’s and Lantana’s activities in the U.S. is limited, which could adversely affect their ability to compete. Although surplus lines business is generally less regulated than the admitted market, the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. federal and/or state measures may be introduced and promulgated that could result in increased oversight and regulation of surplus lines insurance. Additionally, some recent and pending cases in Florida and California courts have raised potentially significant questions regarding surplus lines insurance in those states such as whether surplus lines insurers will be subject to policy form content, filing and approval requirements or additional taxes. In 2008, the Florida Supreme Court held that surplus lines insurers were subject to insurance law provisions governing policy delivery, policy forms, the payment of attorney fees and other matters; however, in 2009, the Florida legislature passed FL SB 1894 and HB 853 to clarify the limited applicability of Florida insurance law to surplus lines insurers (exempt from the provisions governing policy delivery, policy forms, etc.). This case could foreshadow more extensive oversight of surplus lines insurance by other jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our excess and surplus lines business, or the surplus lines markets for which we are a lead reinsurer. Stonington, which writes insurance in all 50 states and the District of Columbia on an admitted basis, is subject to extensive regulation under state statutes which confer regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers on state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors or shareholders of the insurer. 45 Table of Contents Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our currently unregulated non-insurance subsidiaries to become subject to some form of regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with any new or additional regulatory requirements, and any such requirements may impact the operations of our insurance and/or non-insurance subsidiaries and ultimately could impact our financial condition as well. In addition, we could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. We are unable to predict the effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have on such markets generally or on the Company in particular. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, then-President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. Subsequently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), a $787 billion stimulus bill for the purpose of stabilizing the economy by, among other things, creating jobs. The U.S. federal government and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. Some companies that engage in both life and property casualty insurance lines of business, have participated in the ARRA programs and many believe that current market conditions have been adversely impacted by the government support of certain large market participants, which may have contributed to inadequate pricing conditions in respect of certain lines and coverages. We are unable to predict the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on the Company’s competitive position, business and financial condition in particular, though we are monitoring the situation as it evolves. Operational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours. We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obligations under our agreements, information technology failures, or external events. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex we are exposed to more risk in these areas. Our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our success. Moreover, our proprietary technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting strategy and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. While we have implemented disaster recovery and other business contingency plans, a defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in reduced or delayed revenue growth, higher than expected losses, management distraction, or harm to our reputation. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to risks in connection with our management of third party capital. Certain of our operating subsidiaries manage third party capital, and in some cases our own capital. We manage our own capital and other capital through our Lloyd’s managing agency business. Depending on the jurisdiction and form of organization, our operating subsidiaries may owe certain legal duties and obligations to third party investors (including reporting obligations) and are subject to a variety of often complex laws and regulations. Compliance with some of these laws and regulations requires significant management time and attention, particularly with respect to our newer businesses and ventures. Although we seek to continually monitor our policies and procedures to attempt to ensure compliance, faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established policies and procedures, could result in our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses to the Company, and seriously harm our business and results of operations. 46 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, as we expand geographically, an increasing portion of our premium is, and likely will be, written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and a portion of our claims and claim expense reserves is also in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Moreover, we maintain a portion of our cash and investments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we generally seek to hedge significant non-U.S. dollar positions, we may, from time to time, experience losses resulting solely from fluctuations in the values of these foreign currencies, which could cause our consolidated earnings to decrease. In addition, failure to manage our foreign currency exposures could cause our results of operations to be more volatile. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. The capital requirements of our business depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to sell our reinsurance and insurance products is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to support our future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. While we do not currently expect to require additional external capital in the near term due to our strong current capital position, our operations are subject to the ever present potential for significant volatility in capital due to our exposure to potentially significant catastrophic events. Any further equity or debt financing, or capacity needed for letters of credit, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us, particularly in light of the recent disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the capital and credit markets. Our ability to raise such capital successfully would depend upon the facts and circumstances at the time, including our financial position and operating results, market conditions, and applicable legal issues. Access to capital on attractive terms has been challenging for many companies during the ongoing global credit crisis. If we are unable to obtain adequate capital if and when needed, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, in the future we may be unable to raise new capital for our managed joint ventures and other private alternative investment vehicles, which would reduce our future fee income and market capacity. Our principal existing letter of credit facility and our revolving credit facility are scheduled to expire on April 27, 2010 and March 31, 2010, respectively. For more information, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Capital Resources”. We may not succeed in renewing or replacing these facilities on terms attractive to us or at all. Our ability to renew or replace these credit facilities is subject to many factors beyond our control, such as more stringent credit criteria and/or conditions emanating from or as a result of the recent difficult conditions in the global capital and credit markets, the effect of which may be to make a renewal or replacement so onerous as to make us consider alternate sources of such liquidity or limit our ability to write business for our customers. The covenants in our debt agreements limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. At December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $300.0 million of indebtedness outstanding. Our indebtedness primarily consists of publicly traded notes and letter of credit and revolving credit facilities. For more details on our indebtedness, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Capital Resources”. The agreements covering our indebtedness, particularly our bank loans, contain covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. These agreements also require us to maintain specific financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facilities could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them, cancel their commitments to lend or issue letters of credit, or both, and require us to pledge additional or a different type of collateral. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and payments from our subsidiaries. As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on investment income, cash dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on our debt and to pay dividends to our shareholders. The holding company does not have any operations and from time to time may not have significant liquid assets. Bermuda law and various U.S. insurance regulations may limit the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may be unable to pay dividends or to repay our indebtedness. For example, since our U.S. insurance subsidiaries may only pay dividends out of earned surplus, and as these subsidiaries’ earned surplus is negative, they cannot currently pay dividends without the applicable state insurance department approval. 47 Table of Contents Acquisitions or strategic investments that we have made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy, we frequently monitor and analyze opportunities to acquire or make a strategic investment in new or other businesses that will not detract from our core Reinsurance and Individual Risk operations. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims and inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Any failure by us to effectively limit such risks or implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Results in certain of our newer or potentially expanding business lines could cause significant volatility in our consolidated financial statements. As we continue to grow and diversify our operations, certain of our new or potentially expanding business lines could have a significant negative impact on our financial results or cause significant volatility in our results for any fiscal quarter or year. For example, we may experience losses or experience significant volatility in our financial results with respect to our crop insurance business as a result of volatility in commodity prices and weather events, such as flooding, drought, hail, windstorms and other natural phenomena, all of which impacts the profitability of this line of business. In addition, our weather and energy products and trading business is accounted for at fair value and the value of our positions can change significantly which could have a significant negative impact on our financial results, or cause significant volatility in our results for any fiscal quarter or year. Some aspects of our corporate structure may discourage third party takeovers and other transactions or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Bye-Laws have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or preventing the removal of our current board of directors and management. In particular, our Bye-Laws prohibit transfers of our capital shares if the transfer would result in a person owning or controlling shares that constitute 9.9% or more of any class or series of our shares. In addition, our Byelaws reduce the total voting power of any shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, beneficially or otherwise, as described in our Bye-laws, more than 9.9% of our common shares to not more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our capital stock unless otherwise waived at the discretion of the Board. The primary purpose of these provisions is to reduce the likelihood that we will be deemed a “controlled foreign corporation” within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, these provisions may also have the effect of deterring purchases of large blocks of common shares or proposals to acquire us, even if some or a majority of our shareholders might deem these purchases or acquisition proposals to be in their best interests. In addition, our Bye-Laws provide for, among other things: • a classified Board, whose size is fixed and whose members may be removed by the shareholders only for cause upon a 66 2/3% vote; • restrictions on the ability of shareholders to nominate persons to serve as directors, submit resolutions to a shareholder vote and requisition special general meetings; • a large number of authorized but unissued shares which may be issued by the Board without further shareholder action; and • a 66 2/3% shareholder vote to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with several provisions of the Bye-Laws. These Bye-Law provisions make it more difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our directors, which we believe would generally best serve the interests of our shareholders. However, these provisions could have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these Bye-Law provisions could prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. To the extent these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or could depress the market price of the shares. 48 Table of Contents We indirectly own certain U.S. based insurance subsidiaries. Our ownership of a U.S. insurance company can, under applicable state insurance company laws and regulations, delay or impede a change of control of RenaissanceRe. It is possible that we will form, acquire or invest in other U.S. domestic insurance companies in the future, which could make this risk more severe. Under applicable state insurance regulations, any proposed purchase of 10% or more of our voting securities would require the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulatory authorities. In addition, similar provisions apply to our Lloyd’s managing agent, whereby the FSA regulates the acquisition of control of any Lloyd’s managing agent which is authorized under the FSMA. Any company or individual that, together with its or his associates, directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. Investors may have difficulties in serving process or enforcing judgments against us in the U.S. We are a Bermuda company. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the U.S. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the U.S. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws whether or not we appoint an agent in the U.S. to receive service of process. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The reinsurance and insurance businesses are historically cyclical and the pricing and terms for our products may decline, which could affect our profitability. The reinsurance and insurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of decreasing prices followed by periods of increasing prices. Reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in their results of operations due to numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, perceptions of risk, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and underwriting results of other insurers and reinsurers. All of these factors fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the reinsurance and insurance industries. For example, an increase in capital in our industry after the 2005 catastrophe events, and the enactment of the 2007 Florida legislation described below, helped create a softening market where pricing decreased in certain lines and became less attractive; on the other hand, the combination of the 2008 storms and the effects of the recent financial crisis resulted in relatively attractive market conditions at the time of the July 1, 2009 and January 1, 2010 catastrophe renewals. The catastrophe-exposed lines in which we are a market leader are affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including natural and man-made disasters. The occurrence, or nonoccurrence, of catastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are inherently unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices of our products. We expect premium rates and other terms and conditions of trade to vary in the future. If demand for our products falls or the supply of competing capacity rises, our prospects for potential growth, due in part to our disciplined approach to underwriting, may be adversely affected. In particular, we might lose existing customers or decline business, which we might not regain when industry conditions improve. In recent years, hedge funds and investment banks have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. While this trend has slowed during the ongoing period of financial dislocation, we generally expect increased competition from a wider range of entrants over time. It is possible that such new or alternative capital could cause reductions in prices of our products. To the extent that industry pricing of our products does not meet our hurdle rate, we would generally expect to reduce our future underwriting activities thus resulting in reduced premiums and a reduction in expected earnings. Recent or future legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 2007, the State of Florida enacted legislation to expand the FHCF’S provision of below-market rate reinsurance to up to $28.0 billion per season (the “2007 Florida Bill”). In May of 2009, the Florida legislature enacted 49 Table of Contents Bill No. CS/CS/CS/HB 1495 (the “2009 Bill”), which will gradually phase out $12.0 billion in optional reinsurance coverage under the FHCF over the next five years, reducing the coverage amount to $16.0 billion. The 2009 Bill will also increase the cost of the optional coverage, starting with an increase by a factor of two in the 2009-2010 season and raising costs by a factor of one in each succeeding year until the phase-out is complete. The 2009 Bill similarly allows the state-sponsored property insurer, Citizens, to raise its rates up to 10% starting in 2010 and every year thereafter, until such time that it has sufficient funds to pay its claims and expenses. The rate increases and cut back on coverage by FHCF and Citizens will allow for an increased role of the private insurers in Florida, a market in which we have established substantial market share. This legislation may, however, take several years to have a significant effect on the private market. Moreover, it is possible that the Florida legislature will reverse or weaken the 2009 Bill, for example by acting on current proposals to increase the FHCF coverage in 2010 rather than permit this coverage to recede as contemplated by the 2009 Bill. We believe the 2007 Florida Bill caused a substantial decline in the private reinsurance and insurance markets in and relating to Florida, and contributed to the decline in our property catastrophe gross premiums written in 2008 and 2007 as compared to 2006. The 2007 Florida Bill and other regulatory actions over this period may have contributed to instability in the Florida primary insurance market, where many insurers reported substantial and continuing losses in 2009, an unusually low catastrophe year. Because of our position as one of the largest providers of catastrophe-exposed coverage, both on a global basis and in respect of the Florida market, the 2007 Florida Bill and the weakened financial position of Florida insurers may have a disproportionate adverse impact on us compared to other reinsurance market participants. It is also possible that other states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, may enact new or expanded legislation based on the Florida precedent, or may otherwise enact legislation, which would further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. Alternatively, legislation adversely impacting the private markets could be enacted on a regional or at the federal level. For example, in the past, federal bills have been proposed in Congress (and, in 2007, passed by the House of Representatives) which would, if enacted, create a federal reinsurance backstop or guarantee mechanism for catastrophic risks, including those we currently insure and reinsure in the private markets. In 2009, the COGA was introduced in the Senate to federally guarantee bond issuances by certain government entities, potentially including the FHCF, the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association, the California Earthquake Authority, and others. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives. If enacted, this legislation (or legislation similar to these proposals in import) would, we believe, likely contribute to growth of these state entities or to their inception or alteration in a manner adverse to us. While none of this legislation has been enacted to date, and although we believe such legislation would be vigorously opposed if introduced in 2010, if enacted these bills would likely further erode the role of private market catastrophe reinsurers and could adversely impact our financial results, perhaps materially. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of the FHCF, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of federal intervention in the Florida market, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry. Other political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by the U.S. and individual state governments as well as an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Governmental authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide seem increasingly interested in the potential risks posed by the reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful new risks posed by the reinsurance industry, and we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, such as the legislation enacted in Florida in 2007 or the proposed federal legislation described above; 50 Table of Contents • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • expand the scope of coverage under existing policies for matters such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, and the New Orleans flood, or such as a pandemic flu outbreak; • increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; • establish a new federal insurance regulator or financial industry systemic risk regulator; • revise laws, regulations, or contracts under which we operate, such as, but not limited to, the 2008 Farm Bill or the 2011 SRA; • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another; or • repeal or diminish the insurance company antitrust exemption from the McCarran Ferguson Act. Our primary insurance business, which is regulated more comprehensively than reinsurance, increases our exposure to adverse political, judicial and legal developments. We are incorporated in Bermuda and are therefore subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision or change in regulation. In addition, we are subject to changes in the political environment in Bermuda, which could make it difficult to operate in, or attract talent to, Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S. and in various states within the U.S. We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal operating companies are domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading European Union countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the U.K., may consider changes to its relationship with the U.K. in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position in respect of its regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and property catastrophe reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Historically, periods of increased capacity levels in our industry generally have led to increased competition, and decreased prices for our products. We believe that our principal competitors in the property catastrophe reinsurance market include other companies active in the Bermuda market, including Ace, Allied World, Arch, Axis, Endurance, Everest Re, IPC, Montpelier Re, Partner Re, Platinum, Transatlantic, Validus, White Mountains and XL, as well as a growing number of private, unrated reinsurers offering predominately collateralized reinsurance. We also compete with certain Lloyd’s syndicates active in the London market, as well as with a number of other industry participants, such as AIG, Berkshire, Hannover Re, Munich Re Group and Swiss Re. As our business evolves over time, we expect our competitors to change as well. For example, following hurricane Katrina in August 2005, a significant number of new reinsurance companies were formed in Bermuda which have resulted in new competition, which may well continue in subsequent periods. Also, hedge funds and investment banks have shown an interest in entering the reinsurance market, either through the formation of reinsurance companies, or through the use of other financial products, such as catastrophe bonds and other cat-linked securities. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the reinsurance market or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. We cannot predict what effect any of these developments may have on our businesses. The markets in which our Individual Risk unit operates are also highly competitive. Primary insurers compete on the basis of factors including distribution channels, product, price, service and financial strength. Many of our primary insurance competitors, especially in jurisdictions in which we have recently expanded, or may expand in 51 Table of Contents the future, are larger and more established than we are and have greater financial resources and consumer recognition. We seek primary insurance pricing that will result in adequate returns on the capital allocated to our primary insurance business. We may lose primary insurance business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices or on more advantageous terms. Consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could adversely impact us. We believe that several (re)insurance industry participants are seeking to consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operation. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of jurisdictions perceived by the OECD to be tax havens or to offer preferential tax regimes. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum,” Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Regulatory regimes and changes to accounting rules may adversely impact financial results irrespective of business operations. Accounting standards and regulatory changes may require modifications to our accounting principles, both prospectively and for prior periods and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In particular, the SEC has formally proposed a plan to first allow and then require companies to file financial statements in accordance with IFRS rather than GAAP. Such changes, if ultimately adopted, could have a significant impact on our financial reporting, impacting key matters such as our loss reserving policies and premium and expense recognition. For example, the International Accounting Standards Board is considering adopting an accounting standard that would require all reinsurance and insurance contracts to be accounted for under a new measurement basis, contract fulfillment value, which is considered to be more closely related to fair value than the current measurement basis, and would also require that deferred acquisition costs be derecognized and that future acquisition costs be expensed as incurred. We are currently evaluating how the SEC’s initiatives will impact us, including with respect to our loss reserving policy and the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. Required modification of our existing principles, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on our results of operations, including changing the timing of the recognition of underwriting income, increasing the volatility of our reported earnings and changing our overall financial statement presentation. Heightened scrutiny of issues and practices in the insurance industry may adversely affect our business. We believe that certain government authorities, including state officials in Florida, are continuing to scrutinize and investigate a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry. While we have not been named in any actions or proceedings, it is possible such scrutiny could expand to include us in the future, and it is also possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate or otherwise give rise to changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs or requires us to alter how we conduct our business. 52 Table of Contents We cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations, and any changes in industry practice, including future legislation or regulations that may become applicable to us, will have on the insurance industry, the regulatory framework, or our business. As noted above, because we frequently assume the credit risk of the counterparties with whom we do business throughout our insurance and reinsurance operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the credit quality of these counterparties is severely impacted by the current investigations in the insurance industry or by changes to industry practices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Glossary of Selected Insurance and Reinsurance Terms Accident year Year of occurrence of a loss. Claim payments and reserves for claims and claim expenses are allocated to the year in which the loss occurred for losses occurring contracts and in the year the loss was reported for claims made contracts. Acquisition expenses The aggregate expenses incurred by a company acquiring new business, including commissions, underwriting expenses, premium taxes and administrative expenses. Additional case reserves Additional case reserves represent management’s estimate of reserves for claims and claim expenses that are allocated to specific contracts, less paid and reported losses by the client. Attachment point The dollar amount of loss (per occurrence or in the aggregate, as the case may be) above which excess of loss reinsurance becomes operative. Bordereaux A report providing premium or loss data with respect to identified specific risks. This report is periodically furnished to a reinsurer by the ceding insurers or reinsurers. Bound A (re)insurance policy is considered bound, and the (re)insurer responsible for the risks of the policy, when both parties agree to the terms and conditions set forth in the policy. Broker An intermediary who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance, receiving a commission for placement and other services rendered, between (1) a policy holder and a primary insurer, on behalf of the insured party, (2) a primary insurer and reinsurer, on behalf of the primary insurer, or (3) a reinsurer and a retrocessionaire, on behalf of the reinsurer. Capacity The percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions. 53 Table of Contents Case reserves Loss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims. Casualty insurance or reinsurance Insurance or reinsurance that is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons and their property (in other words, persons other than the policyholder) and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting there from. Also referred to as liability insurance. Catastrophe A severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a “catastrophe.” Catastrophe-linked securities; cat-linked securities Cat-linked securities are generally privately placed fixed income securities where all or a portion of the repayment of the principal is linked to catastrophic events. This includes securities where the repayment is linked to the occurrence and/or size of, for example, one or more hurricanes or earthquakes, or other industry losses associated with these catastrophic events. Cede; cedant; ceding company When a party reinsures its liability with another, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “cedant” or “ceding company.” Claim Request by an insured or reinsured for indemnification by an insurance company or a reinsurance company for losses incurred from an insured peril or event. Claims made contracts Contracts that cover claims for losses occurring during a specified period that are reported during the term of the contract. Claims and claim expense ratio, net The ratio of net claims and claim expenses to net premiums earned determined in accordance with either statutory accounting principles or GAAP. Claim reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated costs of claim payments and the related expenses that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance policies it has issued. Claims reserves consist of case reserves, established with respect to individual reported claims, additional case reserves and “IBNR” reserves. For reinsurers, loss expense reserves are generally not significant because substantially all of the loss expenses associated with particular claims are incurred by the primary insurer and reported to reinsurers as losses. 54 Table of Contents Combined ratio The combined ratio is the sum of the net claims and claim expense ratio and the underwriting expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% generally indicates profitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates unprofitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. Crop insurance Lines of insurance that provide coverage for risks including multi-peril crop, crop hail and other named peril agriculture risk management products. Crop year The annual period from July 1 of any year through June 30 of the following year and identified by reference to the year containing June. Decadal Refers to events occurring over a 10-year period, such as an oscillation whose period is roughly 10 years. Deemed inuring reinsurance A designation of other reinsurances which are first applied pursuant to the terms of the reinsurance agreement to reduce the loss subject to a particular reinsurance agreement. If the other reinsurances are to be disregarded as respects loss to that particular agreement, they are said to inure only to the benefit of the reinsured. Excess and surplus lines reinsurance Any type of coverage that cannot be placed with an insurer admitted to do business in a certain jurisdiction. Risks placed in excess and surplus lines markets are often substandard as respects adverse loss experience, unusual, or unable to be placed in conventional markets due to a shortage of capacity. Excess of loss Reinsurance or insurance that indemnifies the reinsured or insured against all or a specified portion of losses on underlying insurance policies in excess of a specified amount, which is called a “level” or “retention.” Also known as non-proportional reinsurance. Excess of loss reinsurance is written in layers. A reinsurer or group of reinsurers accepts a layer of coverage up to a specified amount. The total coverage purchased by the cedant is referred to as a “program” and will typically be placed with predetermined reinsurers in pre-negotiated layers. Any liability exceeding the outer limit of the program reverts to the ceding company, which also bears the credit risk of a reinsurer’s insolvency. Exclusions Those risk, perils, or classes of insurance with respect to which the reinsurer will not pay loss or provide reinsurance, notwithstanding the other terms and conditions of reinsurance. Frequency The number of claims occurring during a given coverage period. Funds at Lloyd’s Funds of an approved form that are lodged and held in trust at Lloyd’s as security for a member’s underwriting activities. They comprise the members’ deposit, personal reserve fund and special reserve fund and may be drawn down in the event that the member’s syndicate level premium trust funds are insufficient to cover his liabilities. The amount of the deposit is related to the member’s premium income limit and also the nature of the underwriting account. 55 Table of Contents Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States Also referred to as GAAP. Accounting principles as set forth in opinions of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and/or statements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and/or their respective successors and which are applicable in the circumstances as of the date in question. Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance written and assumed reinsurance during a given period. Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) Reserves for estimated losses that have been incurred by insureds and reinsureds but not yet reported to the insurer or reinsurer, including unknown future developments on losses that are known to the insurer or reinsurer. Insurance-linked securities Financial instruments whose values are driven by (re)insurance loss events. For the Company, insurance-linked securities are generally linked to property losses due to natural catastrophes. International Financial Reporting Standards Also referred to as IFRS. Accounting principles, standards and interpretations as set forth in opinions of the International Accounting Standards Board which are applicable in the circumstances as of the date in question. Layer The interval between the retention or attachment point and the maximum limit of indemnity for which a reinsurer is responsible. Line The amount of excess of loss reinsurance protection provided to an insurer or another reinsurer, often referred to as limit. Line of business The general classification of insurance written by insurers and reinsurers, e.g. fire, allied lines, homeowners and surety, among others. Lloyd’s Depending on the context this term may refer to (a) the society of individual and corporate underwriting members that insure and reinsure risks as members of one or more syndicates (i.e. Lloyd’s is not an insurance company) (b) the underwriting room in the Lloyd’s Building in which managing agents underwrite insurance and reinsurance on behalf of their syndicate members. In this sense Lloyd’s should be understood as a market place; or (c) the Corporation of Lloyd’s which regulates and provides support services to the Lloyd’s market. Loss; losses An occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Whether losses are covered, limited or excluded from coverage is dependent on the terms of the policy. Loss ratio Net claims incurred expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums. Loss reserve For an individual loss, an estimate of the amount the insurer expects to pay for the reported claim. For total losses, estimates of expected payments for reported and unreported claims. These may include amounts for claims expenses. Managing agent An underwriting agent which has permission from Lloyd’s to manage a syndicate and carry on underwriting and other functions for a member. 56 Table of Contents Net claims and claim expenses The expenses of settling claims, net of recoveries, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs (also known as claim adjustment expenses or loss adjustment expenses) plus losses incurred with respect to net claims. Net premiums earned The portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was actually recognized as income during such period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written for a given period less premiums ceded to reinsurers and retrocessionaires during such period. Non-proportional reinsurance See “Excess of loss.” Perils This term refers to the causes of possible loss in the property field, such as fire, windstorm, collision, hail, etc. In the casualty field, the term “hazard” is more frequently used. Property insurance or reinsurance Insurance or reinsurance that provides coverage to a person with an insurable interest in tangible property for that person’s property loss, damage or loss of use. Property per risk Reinsurance on a treaty basis of individual property risks insured by a ceding company. Proportional reinsurance A generic term describing all forms of reinsurance in which the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the original premiums and losses of the reinsured. (Also known as pro-rata reinsurance, quota share reinsurance or participating reinsurance.) In proportional reinsurance the reinsurer generally pays the ceding company a ceding commission. The ceding commission generally is based on the ceding company’s cost of acquiring the business being reinsured (including commissions, premium taxes, assessments and miscellaneous administrative expense) and also may include a profit factor. See also “Quota Share Reinsurance”. Quota share reinsurance A form of proportional reinsurance in which the reinsurer assumes an agreed percentage of each insurance policy being reinsured and shares all premiums and losses according with the reinsured. See also “Proportional Reinsurance”. Reinstatement premium The premium charged for the restoration of the reinsurance limit of a catastrophe contract to its full amount after payment by the reinsurer of losses as a result of an occurrence. Reinsurance An arrangement in which an insurance company, the reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurance or reinsurance company, the ceding company, against all or a portion of the insurance or reinsurance risks underwritten by the ceding company under one or more policies. Reinsurance can provide a ceding company with several benefits, including a reduction in net liability on individual risks and catastrophe protection from large or multiple losses. Reinsurance also provides a ceding company with additional underwriting capacity by permitting it to accept larger risks and write more business than would be possible without a concomitant increase in capital and surplus, and facilitates the maintenance of acceptable financial ratios by the ceding company. Reinsurance does not legally discharge the primary insurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the insured. 57 Table of Contents Reinsurance to Close Also referred to as a RITC, it is a contract to transfer the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to one year of account of a syndicate into a later year of account of the same or different syndicate in return for a premium. Retention The amount or portion of risk that an insurer retains for its own account. Losses in excess of the retention level are paid by the reinsurer. In proportional treaties, the retention may be a percentage of the original policy’s limit. In excess of loss business, the retention is a dollar amount of loss, a loss ratio or a percentage. Retrocessional reinsurance; Retrocessionaire A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause primary insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity. Risks A term used to denote the physical units of property at risk or the object of insurance protection that are not perils or hazards. Also defined as chance of loss or uncertainty of loss. Risks attaching contracts Contracts that cover claims that arise on underlying insurance policies that incept during the term of the reinsurance contract. Solvency II A modernized set of regulatory requirements for (re)insurance firms that operate in the European Union, currently expected to be in force for 2012. Specialty lines Lines of insurance and reinsurance that provide coverage for risks that are often unusual or difficult to place and do not fit the underwriting criteria of standard commercial products carriers. Statutory accounting principles Recording transactions and preparing financial statements in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed or permitted by Bermuda, U.S. state insurance regulatory authorities including the NAIC and/or in accordance with Lloyd’s specific principles, all of which generally reflect a liquidating, rather than going concern, concept of accounting. Stop loss A form of reinsurance under which the reinsurer pays some or all of a cedant’s aggregate retained losses in excess of a predetermined dollar amount or in excess of a percentage of premium. Submission An unprocessed application for (i) insurance coverage forwarded to a primary insurer by a prospective policyholder or by a broker on behalf of such prospective policyholder, (ii) reinsurance coverage forwarded to a reinsurer by a prospective ceding insurer or by a broker or intermediary on behalf of such prospective ceding insurer or (iii) retrocessional coverage forwarded to a retrocessionaire by a prospective ceding reinsurer or by a broker or intermediary on behalf of such prospective ceding reinsurer. 58 Table of Contents Syndicate A member or group of members underwriting (re)insurance business at Lloyd’s through the agency of a managing agent or substitute agent to which a syndicate number is assigned. Treaty A reinsurance agreement covering a book or class of business that is automatically accepted on a bulk basis by a reinsurer. A treaty contains common contract terms along with a specific risk definition, data on limit and retention, and provisions for premium and duration. Underwriting The insurer’s or reinsurer’s process of reviewing applications submitted for insurance coverage, deciding whether to accept all or part of the coverage requested and determining the applicable premiums. Underwriting capacity The maximum amount that an insurance company can underwrite. The limit is generally determined by a company’s retained earnings and investment capital. Reinsurance serves to increase a company’s underwriting capacity by reducing its exposure from particular risks. Underwriting expense ratio The ratio of the sum of the acquisition expenses and operational expenses to net premiums earned, determined in accordance with GAAP. Underwriting expenses The aggregate of policy acquisition costs, including commissions, and the portion of administrative, general and other expenses attributable to underwriting operations. Unearned premium The portion of premiums written representing the unexpired portions of the policies or contracts that the insurer or reinsurer has on its books as of a certain date. 59 Table of Contents 