ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. If we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement that we entered into in December 2010, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs.12Table of ContentsIn December 2010, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement, or CIA, with the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The foregoing agreement resolved the investigation commenced by the USAO in December 2007 into the Company's consulting arrangements with orthopaedic surgeons relating to the Company's hip and knee products in the United States. The CIA imposes on us certain obligations to maintain compliance with U.S. healthcare regulatory laws. Our failure to do so could expose us to significant liability including, but not limited to, exclusion from federal healthcare program participation, including Medicaid and Medicare, civil and criminal fines or penalties, and additional litigation cost and expense. Any of these consequences would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The CIA acknowledges the existence of our Corporate Compliance Program and provides for certain other compliance-related activities during the five-year term of the agreement. If we breach the CIA, the OIG-HHS may take further action against us, up to and including excluding us from participation in federal healthcare programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our settlement with the United States Department of Justice and OIG-HHS could lead to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. As a result of the allegations of wrongdoing made by the USAO and the publicity surrounding our settlement with the United States Department of Justice and OIG-HHS, other governmental agencies, including state authorities, could conduct their own investigations or institute proceedings, none of which are precluded by terms of our existing settlement. In addition, the settlement with the United States Department of Justice could increase our exposure to lawsuits by potential whistleblowers under the federal false claims acts, based on new theories or allegations arising from the allegations made by the USAO. The costs of defending or resolving any such investigations or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Efforts to enhance our corporate compliance program require the cooperation of many individuals, may divert resources from our other business activities and may require substantial investment.We are committed to the continued enhancement of our corporate compliance program, which requires substantial financial and human resources. The continued successful implementation of our enhanced corporate compliance program requires the full and sustained cooperation of our employees, distributors and sales agents as well as the healthcare professionals with whom our agents interact. These efforts require increased expenses, which may negatively impact our results of operations.Economic downturns, both domestically and internationally, and disruptions in capital and credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of funds necessary for us to meet both our short term and long-term funding needs and may otherwise impair our ability to grow our business, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business may be negatively impacted by economic downturns, such as the global economic downturn that materially impacted the global economy in 2008 and 2009, the effect of which has continued to negatively affect the availability of business and consumer credit. We rely predominantly on the credit markets and borrowing under our existing credit facility to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs to the extent that funds are not available from our operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facility and could make alternative funding, such as our raising of capital through the public or private issuance of equity securities, unavailable on reasonable terms or at all. Our access to funds under our current credit facility is dependent on the ability of the lending banks under the facility to meet their respective funding commitments. If our lenders are unable to obtain funds, whether due to a shortage of liquidity in the banking system or otherwise, then they may not be able to meet their respective funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit market, similar to those experienced during late 2008 and throughout 2009 could result from, among other things, global economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation or failures of significant financial institutions, any of which could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash, which could harm our competitive position and results of operation.Market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services and an increased number of customers who are unable to pay amounts owed to us. Further, bankruptcies or similar events 13Table of Contentsaffecting our customers may cause us to incur increased bad debt expense. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with these regulations could materially adversely impact our operations.Failure to obtain government approvals and clearances for new products and/or modifications to existing products or otherwise comply with applicable laws and regulations would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. See “Item 1. Business-Government Regulation.” A significant recall of one or more of our products would reduce sales, could subject us to increased litigation, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We cannot provide assurance that such clearances will be granted or that review by government authorities will not involve delays that could materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings, and cash flows.Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and contain costs. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have declined; the use of managed care has increased; distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers and pharmacy chains have consolidated; and large purchasing groups are prevalent. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, referred to together as the Healthcare Reform Acts, were enacted. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to over 30 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the Healthcare Reform Acts do not take effect until 2014 and some of the provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts could affect us adversely. The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, including, among others, imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices by manufacturers and importers beginning in 2013, which may negatively affect our business, cash flows and results of operations.We expect the healthcare industry to face increased scrutiny over reimbursement and healthcare reform, which could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. In the United States and other countries, sales of our products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third party payers, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States and abroad. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of this legislation, we believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our products would adversely impact sales. This could materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products.We are required to incur significant expenditures in order to maintain relatively high levels of inventory, which can reduce our cash flows. As a result of our need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, we are subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. If a substantial portion of our inventory became obsolete, then we would experience a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting inventory impairment charges and out-of-pocket costs required to replace such inventory. We rely upon third party suppliers for raw materials and supplies, and such parties' failure to perform would adversely impact our production costs.Some of our suppliers rely on a single source of supply for raw materials and/or other inputs of production. Should the availability and on-time delivery of raw materials and supplies needed in the production of our products and services become unreliable or significantly more costly, then our earnings may be materially and adversely impacted due to the resulting increased costs of production. 14Table of ContentsWe conduct business in a highly competitive industry.The orthopaedic implant industry is subject to competition in the following areas: product features and design, innovation, service, the ability to maintain new product flow, clinical acceptance of our products by key orthopaedic surgeons and hospitals, strength of distribution network and price. In addition, we face competition for regional sales representatives within the medical community. Our largest competitors in the orthopaedic device market are DePuy, Inc., a division of Johnson and Johnson, Zimmer, Inc., a subsidiary of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Smith and Nephew plc, and Biomet, Inc. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than us, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. Our success is partially dependent upon our ability to successfully market new and improved products and the failure of the market to accept our new or improved products, or our failure to successfully market these products would adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and results of operations.The failure of our products to gain market acceptance would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that our new or improved products will gain market acceptance. Future acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including:•perceptions by surgeons, patients, third party payers and others in the medical community, about the safety and effectiveness of our products;•the willingness of the target patient population to try new products and of surgeons to decide to use these products;•the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in our product's approved labeling;•the efficacy and potential advantages relative to competing products and products under development;•effectiveness of education, marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any;•publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; •reimbursement of our products by third party payers; and•the price for our products and competing products.We distribute and sell certain third party manufacturers' products, and these third parties could discontinue their relationships with us. Should we fail to meet the minimum sales performance or purchase commitments contained in our distribution agreements with third party manufacturers, those third parties may elect to discontinue our distribution of their respective products and services. Should we lose the rights to one or more of our distribution agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, and results of operations. We are subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations, the violation of which can result in the imposition of harsh penalties that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.There are extensive federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, violations of which can result in significant criminal and civil penalties. These federal laws include: the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other federal healthcare programs; the physician self-referral prohibition, commonly referred to as the Stark Law; the anti-inducement law, which prohibits providers from offering anything to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to induce that beneficiary to use items or services covered by either program; the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and; the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the United States Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent or abusive acts. Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, money penalties, imprisonment, to denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both. As federal and state budget pressures continue, federal and state administrative agencies may also continue 15Table of Contentsto escalate investigation and enforcement efforts to root out waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private persons to sue on behalf of the government. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations, or any investigation or other legal proceedings relating to such alleged violations, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations. An investigation into the use by physicians of any of our products, once commercialized, may dissuade physicians from either purchasing or using them, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize those products. For a more comprehensive discussion of these laws and regulations, See “Item 1. Business-Government Regulation.”We cannot provide assurance as to the level of protection patents on specific designs and processes will afford us and with respect to some products, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which provide less protection. We cannot provide assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that confidential or proprietary information agreements will not be breached, that the parties from whom we have licensed or otherwise acquired patent rights, proprietary rights and technology have full rights to those patent rights and technology, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. Our Optetrak knee system and Equinoxe shoulder system are such products that are subject to patents that we license or hold. Due to the relatively large percentage of our revenues attributable to the Optetrak knee and Equinoxe shoulder systems, if the holders of these patents are determined to not have sufficient legal rights to the patents, our use of the patents could be compromised, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, and results of operations.Our business depends on proprietary technology that we may not be able to protect and which may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.Our success depends, in part, on the strength of the intellectual property rights relating to our products and proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can obtain patent protection for all of our products, whether in the United States or abroad, or that any protection that is obtained would be effective or would withstand challenges as to its validity and enforceability. We do not currently have patent protection for all of our products. For our unpatented products, the only intellectual property rights that exist at present, if any, are trade secret rights. We cannot assure you that others will not readily ascertain by proper means the proprietary technology used in or embodied by our products, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent products or that we can meaningfully protect the rights to unpatented products. We cannot guarantee that our agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, sub-licensees and strategic partners restricting the disclosure and use of trade secrets, inventions and confidential information relating to our products will provide meaningful protection.It is possible that third parties may assert that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, and it is virtually impossible for us to be certain that no infringement exists. Furthermore, because we have acquired some of the intellectual property used in our business from third parties, there are additional inherent uncertainties about the origin and ownership of the intellectual property that could contribute to our infringement exposure. It is also possible that we may need to acquire additional licenses from third parties in order to avoid infringement. We cannot assure you that any required license would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement of another party's intellectual property rights as well as in enforcing our rights against others; and if we are found to infringe, the manufacture, sale and use of our products could be enjoined. Any claims against us, with or without merit, would likely be time-consuming, requiring our management team to dedicate substantial time to addressing the issues presented. Furthermore, many of the parties bringing claims may have greater resources than we have. Any of these events could materially harm our cash flow, liquidity, and results of operations. We must devote substantial resources to research and development, which adversely impacts our cash flows and provides no guarantee of success.We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in developing competitive new products and/or improving existing products so that our products remain competitive and avoid obsolescence. In addition, whether or not 16Table of Contentssuccessful, research and development costs are significant, and our research and development efforts place stress on our cash flows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unsuccessful in developing and producing competitive products that achieve market acceptance. We are subject to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, marketing and sale of orthopaedic implants and surgical instrumentation.We cannot provide assurance we will not face product liability claims that result in substantial liability for which we are not fully insured. A large, successful claim against us, for which we are partially or completely uninsured, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due the cost of defending against such a claim, together with the cost associated with any payment of damages. Even if a product liability claim is meritless, otherwise unsuccessful or not in excess of our insurance coverage limits, our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development, could be adversely affected, causing a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Product liability claims may result in reduced demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the existence of a product liability claim could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to secure and maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms, or at all.Product liability insurance premiums are volatile. If premiums increase significantly, then our operating costs would increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. We presently carry product liability insurance with coverage in an amount we consider reasonable and customary. However, this insurance coverage includes various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage and may not fully cover potential claims. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance in the future at an acceptable cost, or at all.Both our products and third party products that we distribute may be subject to recalls or product liability claims.Both our products and third-party products that we distribute are used in medical procedures; therefore all products sold by us must function with precision and accuracy. If any of these products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we or the third party manufacturer of these products may have to withdraw such products from the market whether by choice or due to a regulatory order. In addition, if patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of these products to function as designed, or as a result of a defective design, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We partially depend on third parties for sales and marketing, and our inability to effectively utilize the services provided by these third parties would materially adversely impact our ability to generate sales.With respect to international markets, we depend on independent sales representatives and distributors for the sale and marketing of certain of our products. Our contracts with distributors generally grant them the exclusive right to market our products in a specified territory and designate particular sales quotas. Our arrangements with our independent sales representatives and distributors typically do not preclude them from selling competitive products. Our success depends upon the expertise of our independent sales representatives and distributors and the acceptance of our products by our customers. Our inability to attract and retain qualified sales representatives and distributors would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. As our international operations have grown, we have transitioned certain our international sales operations from independent international distributors to direct sales operations. During the period of this transition our expenses have increased, and our revenues and related operating profits have been negatively impacted. As the foregoing transition continues, our results of operations, specifically on a quarterly basis, could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to effectively manage significant distributor transitions, then we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.We are dependent on third-party technology, the loss of which would harm our business.We rely on third parties to gain access to technologies that are used in our current products and in products under development. Consequently, we must rely upon these third parties to develop, introduce and maintain technologies that continue to enhance our current products and enable us, in turn, to develop our own products on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet changing customer needs and technological trends in the orthopedic industry. In many 17Table of Contentscases, we do not have supply contracts with these technology suppliers, and we purchase from them on a purchase order basis; therefore, we do not have guaranteed access to such technologies for the intended lifecycles of the products in which such technologies are incorporated. Additionally, these technology suppliers may go out of business or may be subject to, among other things, injunctions interruptions in supply, work stoppages or natural disasters, which prevent them from being able to supply their technologies to us. Additionally, particular technologies may evolve due to changes in industry standards or changes in the market, and due to the lack of contractual agreements with the technology suppliers, we may not have access to the evolved technologies. Were we to lose the ability to obtain needed technology from a supplier, or were that technology no longer available to us under reasonable terms and conditions, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.Any impairment in our relationships with the licensors of technologies used in our products would force us to find other developers on a timely basis or develop our own technology, which could cause us to cease sales of the affected product for a significant period of time. For example, we estimate that it would take us from approximately 18 to 24 months to re-engineer and reintroduce a product if we lost our existing licenses to certain technologies used in some of our products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the third-party technology necessary to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, that we will obtain third-party technology on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to replace third-party technology in the event such technology becomes unavailable, obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. We would have severe difficulty competing if we cannot obtain or replace much of the third-party technology used in our products. Any absence or delay in obtaining third-party technology necessary for our products would materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management due to the efforts required to integrate acquired personnel and operations, and there is no assurance that any such integration will proceed as planned.We intend to continue to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, technologies, products and services. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems and risks, including: •difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with the existing businesses;•difficulty maintaining relationships with important third parties, including those relating to marketing alliances and providing preferred partner status and favorable pricing;•diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses;•strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations;•inability to retain and motivate management and other key personnel of the acquired businesses;•exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, as well as risk of potential litigation arising from such acquisitions;•potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including shareholder lawsuits;•potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on our common shareholders;•the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and•the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets.As a result of our significant growth and initiative to acquire businesses we could experience significant strain on internal resources impacting the design and effectiveness of certain internal control processes. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other harmful effects on our business. 18Table of ContentsAny of these risks can be greater if an acquisition is large relative to the size of our company. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition.We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel, or our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our success.We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If Dr. William Petty, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, terminates his employment with Exactech for any reason, his absence could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to these key individuals. We expect that our anticipated growth and expansion will place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. Our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could impair our ability to manage and operate our business effectively.The international component of our business has been growing, and difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business conditions could harm our business, including restrictions under our current credit facility.The international component of our business has been growing. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, 35%, 35% and 31% of our total revenues, respectively, were generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: •unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments;•longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable;•financial instability of government payers in some markets;•fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates;•our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical infrastructure;•challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations;•healthcare laws and regulations may be more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States; •changes in third-party reimbursement policy that may require some of the patients who receive our implant products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate our reducing selling prices for our products; and •our inability to successfully transition to a significant international platform, including the establishment of internal operational, supply and distribution capabilities.Additionally, our current credit facility contains limits on the aggregate amount of funding that we may provide to our foreign subsidiaries, which may impair our ability to grow our international operations.Any one or more of these factors could materially and adversely affect revenues, liquidity and results of operations.Our stock price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment.The market price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been volatile, fluctuating from a low of $14.42 per share to a high of $19.55 per share during the 52-week trading period ended March 1, 2013, and we may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly include, but are not limited to the following: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations;•the failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors;•changes in market valuations of companies in our industry;19Table of Contents•changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;•adverse regulatory or legal proceedings;•general market conditions;•future issuances of common stock or other securities;•the addition or departure of key personnel; and•announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances.In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause shareholders to lose some or all of their investment in our common stock.Our common shares are thinly traded and, therefore, relatively illiquid.As of March 1, 2013, we had 13,344,423 common shares outstanding. While our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock is thinly traded (approximately 0.19%, or 25,000 shares, of our stock traded on an average daily basis during the 52 week trading period ended March 1, 2013) and you may have difficulty in selling your shares quickly. The low trading volume of our common stock is outside of our control, and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained.Existing shareholders' interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities.We expect to issue additional equity securities, to fund the acquisition of additional businesses and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing shareholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock.We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of their shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares.We have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, and our current credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Therefore, an investor in our common stock may obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock.Directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that an investor may not consider to be in the best interests of our shareholders.Our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our shareholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other shareholders. This could prevent the consummation of transactions favorable to other shareholders, such as a transaction in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices.Our business and customers may be subject to use taxes and other taxes.The application of indirect taxes (such as use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to the surgical instrumentation we provide in connection with the orthopaedic implant devices we manufacture is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations are vague as to whether their application is appropriate in this arena. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the provision of surgical instrumentation. The application of such statutes and regulations, particularly as many states seek avenues with which they may expand revenues generated from broader taxes, could adversely affect our business as it would result in the imposition of use taxes, as well as costs associated with complex tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on us and our dealers and would impact the cost profile of our surgical 20Table of Contentsinstrumentation. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. We are currently contesting these determinations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities to clarify our obligations under these laws and regulations.Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, or divert management's attention from operating our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are subject to change, and new regulations may be promulgated by the SEC and the securities exchanges, including the NASDAQ Global Market, on which our common stock is listed. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we may incur additional expenses to comply with standards set by regulatory authorities or governing bodies which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.