ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSFactors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following:Risks Related to Our CompanyOur exposure to catastrophic events could cause our financial results to vary significantly from one period to the next and could adversely impact our financial results.While our business has diversified, we continue to have a large overall exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, winter storms, freezes, floods, fires, tornadoes, hailstorms, drought and other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. As a result, our operating results have historically been, and we expect will continue to be, significantly affected by loss events of low frequency and high severity.Claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our quarterly and annual financial results and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that certain factors, including increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, particularly along coastal regions, the increasing risks associated with extreme weather events as a result of changes in climate conditions, and the effects of inflation, may continue to increase the number and severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Accordingly, unanticipated events could result in net negative impacts as compared to our competitors. Historically, we have had a relatively large percentage of our coverage exposures concentrated in the U.S. southeast, but due to the expected increase in severe weather events, there is the potential for significant exposures in other geographic areas in the future.The trend towards increasingly frequently and severe climate events could result in underestimated exposures that have the potential to adversely impact our financial results. For a more detailed discussion of risks associated with environmental and climate-change impacts, see “Part I, Item 1. Business, Environmental and Climate Change Matters.”Our claims and claim expense reserves are subject to inherent uncertainties.Our claims and claim expense reserves reflect our estimates, using actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. We have made substantial investments to develop proprietary analytic and modeling capabilities to facilitate our underwriting, risk management, capital modeling and allocation, and risk assessments relating to the risks we assume. See “Part I, Item 1. Business, Underwriting and Enterprise Risk Management.” These models and other tools help us to manage our risks, understand our capital utilization and risk aggregation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and seek to improve the risk/return profile or optimize the efficiency of the amount of capital we apply as a whole. 40In addition to actuarial and computer models, as well as historical reinsurance and insurance industry loss statistics, we also rely heavily on management’s experience and judgment to assist in the establishment of appropriate claims and claim expense reserves. Our estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, as loss trends and claims inflation impact future payments, or as current laws or interpretations thereof change. Due to the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves and the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques, the reserving process is inherently uncertain and it is expected that some of our assumptions or estimates will prove to be inaccurate, and that our actual net claims and claim expenses paid and reported will differ, perhaps materially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. Accordingly, we may understate the exposures we are assuming and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. Conversely, we may prove to be too conservative and contribute to factors which would impede our ability to grow in respect of new markets or perils or in connection with our current portfolio of coverages. A decline in our financial strength ratings may adversely impact our business, perhaps materially so.Financial strength ratings are used by ceding companies and reinsurance intermediaries to assess the financial strength and quality of reinsurers and insurers. Rating agencies evaluate us periodically and may downgrade or withdraw their financial strength ratings in the future if we do not continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. In addition, rating agencies may make changes in their capital models and rating methodologies from time to time, which, in the past, have generally increased the amounts of capital required to support the ratings. Negative ratings actions could adversely affect our ability to write new business. In addition, many reinsurance contracts contain provisions permitting cedants to cancel coverage pro rata if the reinsurer is downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise this right, or the effect such cancellation would have on our financial condition or future operations is not possible to predict, but such effect potentially could be material. In addition, our ability to compete with other reinsurers and insurers, and our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected by any such ratings downgrade. For example, following a ratings downgrade we might lose customers to more highly rated competitors or retain a lower share of the business of our customers.For the current ratings of certain of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, refer to “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Ratings” for additional information.Emerging claim and coverage issues, or other litigation, could adversely affect us.Unanticipated developments in the law as well as changes in social conditions could potentially result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance and reinsurance contracts. These developments and changes may adversely affect us, perhaps materially so. For example, we could be subject to developments that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. We believe our property catastrophe results have been adversely impacted over recent periods by increasing primary claims level fraud and abuses, as well as other forms of social inflation, and that these trends may continue, particularly in certain U.S. jurisdictions in which we focus, including Florida and Texas. With respect to our specialty reinsurance operations, these legal and social changes and their impact may not become apparent until some time after their occurrence. For example, we could be deemed liable for losses arising out of a matter, such as the potential for industry losses arising out of a pandemic illness, that we had not anticipated or had attempted to contractually exclude. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will enforce policy language or not issue a ruling adverse to us. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by the increased willingness of some market participants to dispute insurance and reinsurance contract and policy wording. Alternatively, potential efforts by us to exclude such exposures could, if successful, reduce the market’s acceptance of our related products. The full effects of these and other 41unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. As we increase the contributions from our Specialty Reinsurance segment, we expect that our exposure to this uncertainty will grow as our “long-tail” casualty businesses grow, because in these lines claims can typically be made for many years, making them more susceptible to these trends than our traditional catastrophe business, which is typically more “short-tail.” While we continually seek to improve the effectiveness of our contracts and claims capabilities, we may fail to mitigate our exposure to these growing uncertainties.Because we depend on a few insurance and reinsurance brokers for a preponderance of our revenue, loss of business provided by them could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide exclusively through a limited number of insurance and reinsurance brokers. Three brokerage firms accounted for 81.5% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014 - 87.2%). As our business is heavily reliant on the use of a few brokers, the loss of a broker through a merger or other business combination could result in the loss of a substantial portion of our business which would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to market our products could decline as a result of the loss of the business provided by any of these brokers and it is possible that our premiums written would decrease. Further, due to the concentration of our brokers, our brokers may have increasing power to dictate the terms and conditions of our arrangements with them, which could have a negative impact on our business.We are exposed to counterparty credit risk, including with respect to reinsurance brokers.In accordance with industry practice, we pay virtually all amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us (we refer to these insurers as ceding insurers). Likewise, premiums due to us by ceding insurers are virtually all paid to brokers, who then pass such amounts on to us. In many jurisdictions, we have contractually agreed that if a broker were to fail to make such a payment to a ceding insurer, we would remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in many jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid by the cedants and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, in connection with the settlement of reinsurance balances, we assume a substantial degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world.We are also exposed to the credit risk of our customers, who, pursuant to their contracts with us, frequently pay us over time. We cannot be assured that our premiums receivable or reinsurance recoverables, which are generally not collateralized, will be collected or that additional amounts will not be required to be written down in future periods. To the extent our customers or retrocedants become unable to pay future premiums, we would be required to recognize a downward adjustment to our premiums receivable or reinsurance recoverables, as applicable, in our financial statements.As a result of the recent period of economic uncertainty, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with agents, brokers, customers, retrocessionaires, capital providers, parties associated with our investment portfolio, and others has increased, perhaps materially so.Weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could adversely affect our business and operating results.Continued challenging economic conditions throughout the world could adversely affect our business and financial results. While many governments, including the U.S. federal government, have taken substantial steps to stabilize economic conditions in an effort to increase liquidity and capital availability, if economic conditions should weaken, the business environment in our principal markets would be adversely affected, which accordingly could adversely affect demand for the products sold by us or our customers. In addition, adverse conditions of volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio or the investment results of our clients, potentially impeding their operations or their capacity to invest in our products. Conditions in the global financial markets and economic and geopolitical conditions throughout the world are outside of our control and difficult to predict, being influenced by factors such as national and international political circumstances (including governmental instability, wars, terrorist acts or security operations), interest rates, market volatility, asset or market correlations, equity prices, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws or regulations including as regards taxation, 42trade barriers, commodity prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates and controls. In addition, during an economic downturn we believe our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with agents, brokers, customers, retrocessionaires, capital providers and parties associated with our investment portfolio, among others, is likely to increase.A continued soft reinsurance underwriting market would adversely affect our business and operating results.In a soft reinsurance underwriting market, premium rates are stable or falling and coverage is readily available. In a hard reinsurance underwriting market, premium rates are increasing and less coverage is available. Leading global intermediaries and other sources have generally reported that the U.S. reinsurance market reflected a soft underwriting market during 2015, with growing levels of industry wide capital held. This capital was supplied principally from traditional market participants and was increasingly complemented by alternative capital providers. We continue to believe that the reinsurance underwriting market will continue to be cyclical, with hard markets caused by withdrawal or use of excess capital, large or frequent loss events and other factors. However, it is possible that increased access of primary insurers to capital, new technologies and other factors will eliminate or significantly lessen the possibility of any future hard reinsurance underwriting market. U.S. taxing authorities could contend that one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries is subject to U.S. corporate income tax, as a result of changes in law or regulations, or otherwise.If the IRS were to contend successfully that one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., such subsidiary would, to the extent not exempted from tax by the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty, be subject to U.S. corporate income tax on that portion of its net income treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, as well as the U.S. corporate branch profits tax. Although we would vigorously contest such an assertion, if we were ultimately held to be subject to taxation, our earnings would correspondingly decline.In addition, benefits of the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty which may limit any such tax to income attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries in the U.S. are only available to any of such subsidiaries if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. Finally, it is unclear whether the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty (assuming satisfaction of the beneficial ownership test) applies to income other than premium income, such as investment income.Changes in U.S. tax law or regulations could increase the costs of our products and services or otherwise reduce our profitability.Congress is reported to be considering legislation relating to the tax treatment of offshore insurance that would adversely affect reinsurance between affiliates and offshore insurance and reinsurance more generally. In past Congressional sessions, similar proposals have been introduced and the Obama Administration has included similar provisions in its formal budgetary proposals. To date, none of this legislation has been approved by either the House of Representatives or the Senate, and the IRS has not effected any formal action in respect of these practices. However, we can provide no assurance that this or similar legislation or proposals will not ultimately be adopted or that the IRS will not effect any such formal action. While we do not believe that this or similar legislation, proposals, or formal IRS actions would materially adversely impact us, it is possible that an adopted bill or formal IRS action would include additional or expanded provisions, or that the interpretation or enforcement of the legislation or proposal, if enacted, or IRS action, would be more expansive or adverse than we currently estimate.A decline in our investment performance could reduce our profitability and hinder our ability to pay claims promptly in accordance with our strategy.We have historically derived a meaningful portion of our income from our invested assets, which are comprised of, among other things, fixed maturity securities, such as bonds, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, equity securities, and investments in private equity partnerships, bank loan funds and hedge funds. Accordingly, our financial results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, inflation, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, 43foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. Additionally, with respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk.The market value of our fixed maturity investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates and widening credit spreads. Increases in interest rates could cause the market value of our investment portfolio to decrease, perhaps substantially. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could reduce our investment yield, which would reduce our overall profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity.A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to other classes of investments including equity securities and interests in alternative investment vehicles such as catastrophe bonds, private equity partnerships, a senior secured bank loan fund and hedge funds. These other classes of investments are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value, which for these alternative investments vehicles is generally established on the basis of the valuation criteria applied by the investment managers as set forth in the governing documents of such investment vehicles. Such valuations may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had ready markets existed for the shares, partnership interests, notes or other securities representing interests in the relevant investment vehicles. If we were forced to sell certain of these assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. Interests in many of the investment classes described above are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales which are determined by the governing documents or otherwise by contract and limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short term. These classes of investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. The performance of these classes of investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and the investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective or that such managers will fail to follow our investment guidelines. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly, adversely affect our financial results.In addition to the foregoing, we may from time to time re-evaluate our investment approach and guidelines and explore investment opportunities in respect of other asset classes not previously discussed above, including, without limitation, by expanding our relatively small portfolio of direct investments in the equity markets. Any such investments could expose us to systemic and price volatility risk, interest rate risk and other market risks. Any investment in equity securities carries with it inherent volatility and there can be no assurance that such an investment will prove profitable and we could, in fact, lose the value of our investment. Accordingly, any such investment could impact our financial results, perhaps materially, over both the short and the long term.We may from time to time modify our business and strategic plan, and these changes could adversely affect us and our financial condition.We regularly evaluate our business plans and strategies. These evaluations often result in changes to our business plans and initiatives, some of which may be material. Given the increasing importance of strategic execution in our industry, we are subject to increasing risks related to our ability to successfully implement our evolving plans and strategies, particularly as the pace of change in our industry continues to increase. Changing plans and strategies requires significant management time and effort, and may divert management’s attention from our core and historically successful operations and competencies. Moreover, modifications we undertake to our operations may not be immediately reflected in our financial statements. Therefore, risks associated with implementing or changing our business strategies and initiatives, including risks related to developing or enhancing the operations, controls and other infrastructure necessary in respect of our more recent, new or proposed initiatives, may not have an impact on our publicly reported results until many years after implementation. The risk we may fail to have the ability to carry out our business plans may have an adverse effect on our long-term results of operations and financial condition.Our current business strategy focuses on writing reinsurance, with limited writing of primary insurance. Certain of our competitors have, in connection with consolidation in the insurance and reinsurance industries, recently increased the amount of primary insurance they are writing, both on an absolute and 44relative basis. There can be no assurance that our business strategy of focusing on writing reinsurance, with limited writing of primary insurance, will prove prudent as compared to the strategies of our competitors. The loss of key senior members of management could adversely affect us.Our success depends in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain our senior officers. The loss of services of members of our senior management team, and the uncertain transition of new members of our senior management team, as applicable, may strain our ability to execute our strategic initiatives. The loss of one or more of our senior officers could adversely impact our business, by, for example, making it more difficult to retain customers, attract or maintain our capital support, or meet other needs of our business, which depend in part on the service of the departing officer. We may also encounter unforeseen difficulties associated with the transition of members of our senior management team to new or expanded roles necessary to execute our strategic and tactical plans from time to time. In addition, our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract and retain a staff of qualified underwriters and service personnel. The location of our global headquarters in Bermuda may impede our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of Permanent Residents’ Certificates and holders of Working Residents’ Certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. A substantial number of the members of our senior management are working in Bermuda under work permits that will expire over the next three to five years. The Bermuda government could refuse to extend these work permits, which would adversely impact us. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to ten years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. If any of our senior officers or key contributors were not permitted to remain in Bermuda, or if we experienced delays or failures to obtain permits for a number of our professional staff, our operations could be disrupted and our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result.The determination of impairments taken is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.The determination of impairments taken on our investments, investments in other ventures, goodwill and other intangible assets and loans varies by type of asset and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.Retrocessional reinsurance may become unavailable on acceptable terms, or may not provide the coverage we intended to obtain.As part of our risk management, we buy reinsurance for our own account, which is known as “retrocessional reinsurance.” From time to time, market conditions have limited or prevented insurers and reinsurers from obtaining retrocessional reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such retrocessional reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms. This could limit the amount of business we are willing to write, or decrease the protection available to us as a result of large loss events.When we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance for our own account, the insolvency of any of our reinsurers, or inability or reluctance of any of our reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. Generally, we believe that the “willingness to pay” of some reinsurers and retrocessionaires is declining. This risk may be more significant to us at present than at many times in the past. Complex coverage issues or coverage disputes may impede our ability to collect amounts we believe we are owed. A large portion of our reinsurance protection is concentrated with a relatively small number of reinsurers. The risk of such concentration of retrocessional coverage may be increased by recent and future consolidation within the industry.45We may be adversely impacted by inflation.We monitor the risk that the principal markets in which we operate could experience increased inflationary conditions, which would, among other things, cause loss costs to increase, and impact the performance of our investment portfolio. The onset, duration and severity of an inflationary period cannot be estimated with precision.We depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies, who may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which exposes us to operational and financial risks.Like other reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each primary risk assumed under our reinsurance contracts. Accordingly, we are heavily dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by our ceding companies and are therefore subject to the risk that our customers may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured, or that the premiums ceded to us will not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume, perhaps materially so. To the extent we continue to increase the relative amount of proportional coverages we offer, we will increase our aggregate exposure to risks of this nature.Operational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours.We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obligations under our agreements, failure of our service providers, such as investment custodians, actuaries, information technology providers, etc., to comply with our service agreements, or information technology failures. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant.We are exposed to risks in connection with our management of capital on behalf of investors in joint ventures or other entities we manage.Our operating subsidiaries owe certain legal duties and obligations (including reporting obligations) to third party investors and are subject to a variety of complex laws and regulations relating to the management of third party capital. Complying with these obligations, laws and regulations requires significant management time and attention. Although we continually monitor our compliance policies and procedures, faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established policies and procedures, could result in our failure to comply with applicable obligations, laws or regulations, which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses to us and seriously harm our business and results of operations. In addition, in furtherance of our goal of matching well-structured risk with capital whose owners would find the risk-return trade-off attractive, we may invest capital in new and complex ventures with which we do not have a significant amount of experience, which may increase our exposure to legal, regulatory and reputational risks. In addition to the foregoing, our third party capital providers may redeem their interests in our joint ventures, which could materially impact the financial condition of such joint ventures, and could in turn materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our joint venture capital providers provide significant capital investment and other forms of capital support in respect of our joint ventures. The loss, or alternation in a negative manner, of any of this capital support could be detrimental to our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that we may be able to attract and raise additional third party capital for our existing joint ventures or for potential new joint ventures and therefore we may forego existing and/or potentially attractive fee income and other income generating opportunities.We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations.We routinely transact business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our financial reporting currency. Moreover, we maintain a portion of our cash and investments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we generally seek to hedge significant non-U.S. dollar positions, we may, from time to time, experience losses resulting solely from fluctuations in the values of these foreign currencies, which could cause our consolidated earnings to decrease. In addition, failure to manage our foreign currency exposures could cause our results of operations to be more volatile. Adverse, unforeseen or rapidly shifting currency valuations in our key markets, such as the Eurozone jurisdictions or Japan, may magnify these risks over time.46We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to support our future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. While our current capital position is strong, our operations are subject to significant volatility in capital due to our exposure to potentially significant catastrophic events. Any further equity or debt financings, or capacity needed for letters of credit, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Our ability to raise such capital successfully would depend upon the facts and circumstances at the time, including our financial position and operating results, market conditions, and applicable legal issues. If we are unable to obtain adequate capital when needed, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. During 2015, approximately one-third of our total capital was provided by our managed joint ventures and other private alternative investment vehicles. In the future we may be unable to raise new capital for our managed joint ventures and other private alternative investment vehicles, which would reduce our future fee income and market capacity and thus negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.The covenants in our debt agreements limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness primarily consists of publicly traded notes, letters of credit and a revolving credit facility. For more details on our indebtedness, see “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Capital Resources.”The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell or place a lien on our or their respective assets, merge or consolidate. Certain of these agreements also require us or our subsidiaries to maintain specific financial ratios. If we or our subsidiaries fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the noteholders or the lenders could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them or, where applicable, cancel their commitments to lend or issue letters of credit or, where the reimbursement obligations are secured, require us to pledge additional or a different type of collateral.The regulatory systems under which we operate and potential changes thereto could restrict our ability to operate, increase our costs, or otherwise adversely impact us.Certain of our operating subsidiaries are not licensed or admitted in any jurisdiction except Bermuda, conduct business only from their principal offices in Bermuda and do not maintain offices in the U.S. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework continues to be subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and Europe. If our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., jurisdictions in the EU, or elsewhere, we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies.Moreover, we, and certain of our operating subsidiaries, could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the future with respect to competitors that are licensed and admitted in U.S. jurisdictions. Among other things, jurisdictions in the U.S. do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted. Our contracts generally require us to post a letter of credit or provide other security (e.g., through a multi-beneficiary reinsurance trust) after a reinsured reports a claim. In order to post these letters of credit, issuing banks generally require collateral. It is possible that the EU or other countries might adopt a similar regime in the future, or that U.S. or EU regulations could be altered in a way that treats Bermuda-based companies disparately. It is possible that individual jurisdiction or cross border regulatory developments could adversely differentiate Bermuda, the jurisdiction in which we are subject to group supervision, or could make available to other jurisdictions benefits such as market access, mutual recognition or reciprocal rights from which Bermuda-based companies are excluded, which could adversely impact us, perhaps significantly. Any such development, or our inability to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, could significantly and negatively affect our operations.RenaissanceRe Specialty Risks is a Bermuda-domiciled excess and surplus lines insurance company that is listed on the NAIC International Insurance Department’s Quarterly List of Alien Insurers as an eligible 47surplus lines insurer. However, RenaissanceRe Specialty Risks is not admitted or licensed in any U.S. jurisdiction and only conducts business from Bermuda. Accordingly, the scope of RenaissanceRe Specialty Risks’ activities in the U.S. is limited, which could adversely affect its ability to compete. Although surplus lines business is generally less regulated than the admitted market, the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal and/or state measures may be introduced and promulgated that could result in increased oversight and regulation of surplus lines insurance. Renaissance Reinsurance U.S., which we acquired in connection with the acquisition of Platinum, is a Maryland-domiciled reinsurance company regulated by the Maryland Insurance Administration and we are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to its operations. Among other things, the Maryland Insurance Administration may impose requirements in respect of the capital, operations or liquidity of Renaissance Reinsurance U.S. and we are required to obtain regulatory approval of certain inter-company agreements involving Renaissance Re U.S. Complying with the regulations and requirements imposed by the Maryland Insurance Administration, as well as any changes or amendments to such regulations, will result in increased costs or burdens for RenaissanceRe. Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our currently unregulated subsidiaries to become subject to some form of regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with any new or additional regulatory requirements, and any such requirements may impact the operations of our insurance and/or non-insurance subsidiaries and ultimately could impact our financial condition. In addition, we could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulations.We could face losses from terrorism, political unrest and war.We have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, political unrest and acts of war. It is difficult to predict the occurrence of these events or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that actual losses from such acts will exceed our probable maximum loss estimate and that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us.We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under reinsurance and insurance treaties. If we think we can reasonably evaluate the risk of loss and charge an appropriate premium for such risk we will write some terrorism exposure on a stand-alone basis. We generally seek to exclude terrorism from non-terrorism treaties. If we cannot exclude terrorism, we will evaluate the risk of loss and attempt to charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to completely eliminate our exposure to terrorist acts.The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 was amended and extended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 and amended and extended again by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”). TRIPRA expired on December 31, 2014 and was amended and renewed on January 12, 2015 for a six year period. TRIPRA provides a federal backstop to all U.S. based property and casualty insurers for insurance related losses resulting from any act of terrorism on U.S. soil or against certain U.S. air carriers, vessels or foreign missions. We benefit from TRIPRA as this protection generally inures to our benefit under our reinsurance treaties where terrorism is not excluded.Because we are a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and payments from our subsidiaries.As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on our investment income, as well as cash dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on our debt and to pay dividends to our shareholders and from time to time may not have significant liquid assets. Regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends under Bermuda law and various U.S. insurance regulations may limit the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders or to repay our indebtedness.48Acquisitions or strategic investments we have made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful.As part of our strategy, we frequently monitor and analyze opportunities to acquire or make a strategic investment in new or other businesses we believe will not detract from our core operations. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel, such as our acquisition and integration of Platinum, could result in a substantial diversion of management resources.The acquisition of Platinum accelerated the growth of our U.S. specialty and casualty reinsurance platform. These business lines traditionally produce lower returns than catastrophe reinsurance. If we are not successful in managing the growth of our U.S. specialty and casualty reinsurance platform, or if this platform fails to produce the anticipated returns, our operating results would be negatively affected. Future acquisitions could likewise involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims and inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. As we pursue or consummate a strategic transaction or investment, we may value the acquired or funded company or operations incorrectly, fail to integrate the acquired operations appropriately into our own operations, fail to successfully manage our operations as our product and geographical diversity increases, expend unforeseen costs during the acquisition or integration process, or encounter other unanticipated risks or challenges. If we succeed in consummating a strategic investment, we may fail to value it accurately or divest it or otherwise realize the value which we originally invested or have subsequently reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Any failure by us to effectively limit such risks or implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information technology platform, including communications and data processing systems, in operating our business. These systems include proprietary software programs that are integral to the efficient operation of our business, including our proprietary pricing and exposure management system. We are also required to effect electronic transmissions with third parties including brokers, clients, vendors and others with whom we do business, and to facilitate the oversight conducted by our Board of Directors. We have established security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed or stored in such systems, and we periodically evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, measures, controls and procedures; however, there can be no guarantee that such systems, measures, controls and procedures will be effective. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of our information, litigation and potential liability. In addition, cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy or other proper functioning of these systems could have a significant impact on our operations, and potentially on our results. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyberattacks. A significant cyber incident, including system failure, security breach, disruption by malware or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to monetary fines and other penalties, which could be significant. See “Part I, Item 1. Business, Information Technology”.Some aspects of our corporate structure may discourage third party takeovers and other transactions or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management.Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Bye-Laws may discourage third parties from making unsolicited takeover bids or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. In particular, our Bye-Laws prohibit transfers of our capital shares if the transfer would result in a person owning or controlling shares that constitute 9.9% or more of any class or series of our shares. In addition, our Bye-Laws reduce the total voting power of any shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, beneficially or otherwise, more than 9.9% of RenaissanceRe Common Shares to not more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our capital stock unless otherwise waived at the discretion of the Board. The primary purpose of these provisions is to reduce the likelihood we will be deemed a “controlled foreign corporation” within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, these provisions may also 49have the effect of deterring purchases of large blocks of RenaissanceRe Common Shares or proposals to acquire us, even if some or a majority of our shareholders might deem these purchases or acquisition proposals to be in their best interests.In addition, our Bye-Laws provide for, among other things:•a classified Board, whose size is fixed and whose members may be removed by the shareholders only for cause upon a 66 2/3% vote; •restrictions on the ability of shareholders to nominate persons to serve as directors, submit resolutions to a shareholder vote and requisition special general meetings;•a large number of authorized but unissued shares which may be issued by the Board without further shareholder action; and•a 66 2/3% shareholder vote to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with several provisions of the Bye-Laws.These Bye-Law provisions make it more difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our directors, which we believe would generally best serve the interests of our shareholders. However, these provisions could have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these Bye-Law provisions could prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. To the extent these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or could depress the market price of the shares.Maryland law also requires prior notice and Maryland Insurance Administration approval of changes in control of a Maryland-domestic insurer or its holding company. Any purchaser of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless the presumption is rebutted. Therefore, any investor who intends to acquire 10% or more of RenaissanceRe’s outstanding voting securities would need to comply with these laws and would be required to file notices and reports with the Maryland Insurance Administration before such acquisition.In respect of our ownership of RSML, our Lloyd’s managing agent, the PRA and FCA regulate the acquisition of control of any Lloyd’s managing agent which is authorized under the FSMA. Any company or individual that, together with its or his associates, directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who has significant influence over the management of such Lloyd’s managing agent or its parent company by virtue of its or his shareholding or voting power in either. Lloyd’s approval is also required before any person can acquire control (using the same definition as for the PRA and FCA) of a Lloyd’s managing agent or Lloyd’s corporate member.Investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing judgments against us in the U.S.We are a Bermuda company. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the U.S. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the U.S. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws whether or not we appoint an agent in the U.S. to receive service of process.Risks Related to Our IndustryThe reinsurance and insurance businesses are historically cyclical and the pricing and terms for our products may decline, which would affect our profitability.The reinsurance and insurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of decreasing prices followed by periods of increasing prices. Reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in their results of operations due to numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, perceptions of risk, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and underwriting 50results of other insurers and reinsurers. All of these factors may contribute to price declines generally in the reinsurance and insurance industries. Following an increase in capital in our industry after the 2005 catastrophe events and the subsequent period of substantial dislocation in the financial markets, the reinsurance and insurance markets have experienced a prolonged period of generally softening markets.The catastrophe-exposed lines in which we are a market leader are affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including natural and man-made disasters. The occurrence, or nonoccurrence, of catastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are inherently unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices of our products.We expect premium rates and other terms and conditions of trade to vary in the future. If demand for our products falls or the supply of competing capacity rises, our prospects for potential growth, due in part to our disciplined approach to underwriting, may be adversely affected. In particular, we might lose existing customers or suffer a decline in business, which we might not regain when industry conditions improve.Recent or future legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Legislation adversely impacting the private markets could be enacted on a state, regional or federal level. For example, in the past, federal bills have been proposed in Congress which would, if enacted, create a federal reinsurance backstop or guarantee mechanism for catastrophic risks, including those we currently insure and reinsure in the private markets. We believe that such legislation, if enacted, could contribute to growth, inception or alteration of state insurance entities in a manner that would be adverse to us. If enacted, bills of this nature would likely further erode the role of private market catastrophe reinsurers and could adversely impact our financial results, perhaps materially. Moreover, numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of Citizens and of the FHCF, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of federal intervention in the Florida market, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry.In 2007, the state of Florida enacted legislation to expand the FHCF’s provision of below-market rate reinsurance to up to $28.0 billion per season (the “2007 Florida Bill”). Because we are one of the largest providers of catastrophe-exposed coverage globally and in Florida, the 2007 Florida Bill and the weakened financial position of Florida insurers may have a greater adverse impact on us than it would on other reinsurance market participants. In addition, it is possible that other regulatory or legislative changes that impact Florida could affect our ability to sell certain of our products and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In June 2012, Congress passed the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2012 (the “Biggert-Waters Bill”), which provided for a five-year renewal of the National Flood Insurance Program (the “NFIP”) and effected substantial reforms in the program, including limits on the rate of premium increases, new flood insurance rate maps and minimum deductibles for flood claims. Many market participants anticipated that that these reforms could increase the role of private risk-bearing capital in respect of U.S. flood perils, a coverage we provide globally, perhaps significantly. However, In March 2014, Congress passed a bill entitled the “Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014” (the “the Grimm-Waters Act”), which amends, delays or defers some of the provisions of Biggert-Waters Bill, as summarized in more detail in “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Current Outlook, Legislative and Regulatory Update”. We believe that the passage of the Grimm-Waters Act has had an adverse impact on near term prospects for increased U.S. private flood insurance demand, the stability of the NFIP and the primary insurers that produce policies for the NFIP or offer private coverages, and it is possible that additional adverse legislation or rulemaking will be enacted at the federal or state level.Internationally, many countries with fast growing economies, such as China and India, continue to impose significant restrictions on the writing of reinsurance by foreign companies. In addition, in the wake of recent large natural catastrophes, a number of proposals have been introduced to alter the financing of natural catastrophes in several of the markets in which we operate. For example, the Thailand government has announced it is studying proposals for a natural catastrophe fund, under which the government would provide coverage for natural disasters in excess of an industry retention and below a certain limit, after which private reinsurers would continue to participate. The government of the Philippines has announced that it is considering similar proposals. Indonesia’s financial services authority has announced a proposal to 51increase the amount of insurance business placed with domestic reinsurers. A range of proposals from varying stakeholders have been reported to have been made to alter the current regimes for insuring flood risk in the U.K., flood risk in Australia and earthquake risk in New Zealand. If these proposals are enacted and reduce market opportunities for our clients or for the reinsurance industry, we could be adversely impacted. See “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Current Outlook, Legislative and Regulatory Update” for further information.Other political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business.The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by the U.S. and individual state governments, as well as an increasing number of international authorities, and we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years (including as specifically addressed in the Dodd-Frank Act), and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. Due to this increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the reinsurance industry, our cost of compliance with applicable laws may increase, which could result in a decrease to both our profitability and the amount of time that our senior management allocates to running the day-to-day operations of the Company.For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals or enacted legislation to:•expand the scope of coverage under existing policies for perils such as hurricanes or earthquakes or for a pandemic disease outbreak;•increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; •expand the proposed scope of the FIO or establish a new federal insurance regulator;•revise laws, regulations, or contracts under which we operate; •disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another; or•repeal or diminish the insurance company antitrust exemption from the McCarran Ferguson Act.Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations will result in additional costs, which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Although we do not expect these costs to be material to us as a whole, we cannot assure you this expectation will prove accurate or that the Dodd-Frank Act or other legislation will not impact our business more adversely than we currently estimate.The EU directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, known as Solvency II, came into effect on January 1, 2016. The EC has assessed the regulatory regime in Bermuda as “equivalent” in all three areas of Solvency II: (i) solvency calculation, (ii) group supervision, and (iii) reinsurance. Official confirmation of Bermuda’s equivalence is expected in 2016 following a three month review by the European Parliament and Council. If Bermuda is not officially confirmed as equivalent to Solvency II, our Bermuda reinsurance companies may be required to post collateral in respect of any reinsurance of European Economic Area cedants. Further, the RenaissanceRe group could be subject to group supervision on the basis of Solvency II principles by the appropriate EU regulator (which would likely be the Central Bank of Ireland) unless the relevant regulator agreed to alternative measures to exercise group supervision in relation to the EU insurance carriers within the group. The U.S. currently has only been granted provisional equivalence with regard to group solvency calculations (but not group supervision and reinsurance) for a period of 10 years. Our U.S. reinsurance companies who provide reinsurance to cedants headquartered in the European Economic Area may be required to post collateral in respect of any such reinsurance, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The implementation of Solvency II requires us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. Our implementation plans are based on our current understanding of the Solvency II requirements and any material changes thereto could have an adverse effect on our business. The principles, standards and requirements of Solvency II may also, directly or indirectly, impact the future supervision of our operating subsidiaries.52We are incorporated in Bermuda and are therefore subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, such as the imposition of tax liability, increased regulatory supervision or changes in regulation. In addition, we are subject to changes in the political environment in Bermuda, which could make it difficult to operate in, or attract talent to, Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S. and in various states within the U.S. We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that most of our current operating companies are domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading EU and Asian countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the U.K., may consider changes to its relationship with the U.K. in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda or the international reinsurance market focused there, either of which could adversely impact us commercially. Further, as we continue to expand our business operations to different regions of the world outside of Bermuda, we are increasingly subject to new and additional regulations with respect to our operations, including, for example, laws relating to anti-corruption and anti-bribery which have received increased scrutiny in recent years.We operate in a highly competitive environment.The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and property catastrophe reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Historically, periods of increased capacity levels in our industry have led to increased competition, and decreased prices for our products.In recent years, hedge funds, pension funds, endowments, investment banks, investment mangers, exchanges and other capital markets participants have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks, either through the formation of reinsurance companies or the use of other financial products intended to complete with traditional reinsurance. We expect competition from these sources and others to continue to increase over time. It is possible that such new or alternative capital could cause reductions in prices of our products, or reduce the duration or amplitude of attractive portions of the historical market cycles. New entrants or existing competitors may attempt to replicate all or part of our business model and provide further competition in the markets in which we participate. Moreover, government-backed entities increasingly represent competition for the coverages we provide directly or for the business of our customers, reducing the potential amount of third party private protection our clients might need or desire. To the extent that industry pricing of our products does not meet our hurdle rate, we would generally expect to reduce our future underwriting activities, thus resulting in reduced premiums and a reduction in expected earnings. We are unable to predict the extent to which the foregoing or other new, proposed or potential initiatives may affect the demand for our products or the risks for which we seek to provide coverage.Consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could adversely impact us.The (re)insurance industry has been consolidating. Should the market continue to consolidate, there can be no assurance we would remain a leading insurer and property catastrophe reinsurer. These consolidated client and competitor enterprises may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would generally expect to reduce our future underwriting activities thus resulting in reduced premiums and a reduction in expected earnings. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of sourcing and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also continue to consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operation.53The OECD and the EU may pursue measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income.The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialog among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of jurisdictions perceived by the OECD to be tax havens or offering preferential tax regimes. The OECD has not listed Bermuda as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because Bermuda has committed to eliminating harmful tax practices and to embracing international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes.In addition, on July 19, 2013, the OECD published its Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting in an attempt to coordinate multilateral action on international tax rules. The proposed actions include an examination of the definition of a “permanent establishment” and the rules for attributing profit to a permanent establishment. The final package of reports was published on October 5, 2015 (the “BEPS Reports”). Any changes in the tax law of an OECD member state in response to the BEPS Reports and recommendations could subject us to additional taxes.Regulatory regimes and changes to accounting rules may adversely impact financial results irrespective of business operations.Accounting standards and regulatory changes may require modifications to our accounting principles, both prospectively and for prior periods, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In particular, the SEC continues to discuss the potential to either converge or transition to an international set of accounting standards that would be applied to financial statements filed with the SEC. Such changes, if ultimately adopted, could have a significant impact on our financial reporting. In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board is considering adopting accounting standards that would require all reinsurance and insurance contracts to be accounted for under a new measurement basis, which standards are considered to be more closely related to fair value than the current measurement basis and the FASB is contemplating new disclosure requirements related to reinsurance and insurance accounting. We are evaluating how the above initiatives will impact us. Required modification of our existing principles, and new disclosure requirements, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on our results of operations and increase our expenses in order to implement and comply with any new requirements.The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments.The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including claims and claim expense reserves), shareholders' equity, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to premiums written and earned, our net claims and claim expenses, investment valuations, income taxes and those estimates used in our risk transfer analysis for reinsurance transactions. We base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our judgments and estimates may not reflect our actual results. We utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish our claims and claim expense reserves. Actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps materially, from the estimates reflected in our financial statements. For more details on our estimates and judgments, see “Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates.”54ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.