ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘‘SEC’’) include the following: Our exposure to catastrophic events could cause our financial results to vary significantly from one period to the next, and the frequency and severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. Our largest product based on total gross premiums written is property catastrophe reinsurance. We also sell lines of specialty reinsurance and certain Individual Risk products that are exposed to catastrophe risk. We therefore have a large overall exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, winter storms, freezes, floods, fires, tornados and other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. As a result, our operating results have historically been, and we expect will continue to be, significantly affected by relatively few events of large magnitude. We expect claims from catastrophic events to cause substantial volatility in our financial results from time to time for any fiscal quarter or year, moreover, catastrophic claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to write new business could also be affected. We believe that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation will continue to increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. From time to time, we may have greater exposures in some geographic areas than our overall share of the worldwide market would suggest. Accordingly, if catastrophes were to occur in these areas, we could experience relatively more severe net negative impacts than our competitors. During 2005, we experienced $891.9 million of net negative impact from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Principally as a result of these hurricane losses in 2005, we recorded a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $281.4 million. In 2004, we recorded $570.2 million of net negative impact from hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne. While 2006 was not characterized by land falling windstorm events resulting in material industry losses, we believe, and recent scientific studies have indicated, that the frequency of hurricanes has increased and may further increase in the future relative to the historical experience over the past 100 years. We have adjusted our risk management models to reflect our judgment of how to interpret these studies. However, it is possible that, even after these adjustments, we have underestimated the frequency or severity of hurricanes or other catastrophes. We may fail to execute our strategy in our newer lines of business, which would impair our future financial results. Historically, our principal product has been property catastrophe reinsurance. Our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk lines of business present us with new and expanded challenges and risks which we may not manage successfully. We are not as experienced in these lines of business as we are in property catastrophe reinsurance; for example, we are continuing to expand our claims management function to support these new lines of business. Businesses in early stages of development present substantial business, financial and operational risks and may suffer significant losses. For example, in our newer businesses we are seeking to develop client and customer relationships, build operating procedures, hire staff, develop and install management information and other systems, as well as taking numerous other steps to implement our strategies. Our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk businesses also require us to develop new expertise in areas such as contract and policy wordings and claims management. If we fail to continue to develop the necessary infrastructure, or otherwise fail to execute our strategy, our results from these new lines of business will likely suffer, perhaps substantially, and our future financial results may be adversely affected. Our expansion into these newer lines of business has placed increased demands on our financial, managerial and human resources. For example, we may need to attract additional professionals to, or expand our facilities in, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction with limited resources. To the extent we are 39 Table of Contents unable to attract additional professionals, our financial, managerial and human resources may be strained. The growth in our staff and infrastructure also creates more managerial responsibilities for our current senior executives, potentially diverting their attention from the underwriting and business origination functions for which they are also responsible. Our future profitability depends in part on our ability to further develop our resources and effectively manage this expansion. Our inability to achieve such development or effectively manage this expansion may impair our future financial results. In general, our techniques for evaluating catastrophe risk are much better developed than those for other classes of risk. In addition, our models are not currently structured to seek to predict long-term climate changes, such as those that might be caused by the possible trend toward significant global warming. Moreover, our models and databases may not adequately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages, such as the likelihood or potential severity of insured losses from an avian flu pandemic. Accordingly, our models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. Our utilization of brokers, program managers and other third parties to support our business exposes us to operational and financial risks. Our Individual Risk operations rely on program managers, and other agents and brokers participating in our programs, to produce and service a substantial portion of our operations in this segment. In these arrangements, we typically grant the program manager the right to bind us to newly issued insurance policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provide and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should our managers issue policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for such policies. Although we would intend to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our program manager would be unable to substantially indemnify us for their contractual breach. We also rely on our managers, or other third parties we retain, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. We could also be exposed to the broker’s operational risk, for example, but not limited to, contract wording errors, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third-party administrators we have retained to manage substantially all of the claims activity that we expect to arise in our program operations. Although we have implemented monitoring and other oversight protocols, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate all of these exposures. We are also subject to the risk that our successful program managers will not renew their programs with us. Our contracts are generally for defined terms of as little as one year, and either party can cancel the contract in a relatively short period of time. While we believe our arrangements offer numerous benefits to our program participants, we cannot assure you we will retain the programs that produce profitable business or that our insureds will renew with us. Failure to retain or replace these producers would impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, and our financial results could be adversely affected. With respect to our Reinsurance operations we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under our reinsurance contracts and, accordingly, like other reinsurers, are heavily dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by our ceding companies. We are therefore subject to the risk that our clients may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured, or that the premiums ceded to us will not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. A decline in the ratings assigned to our financial strength may adversely impact our business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of reinsurers and insurers, such as Renaissance Reinsurance, certain operating subsidiaries of Glencoe Group, Top Layer Re and DaVinci. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies. Periodically the 40 Table of Contents rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance or insurance companies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Renaissance Reinsurance is rated ‘‘A’’ by A.M. Best, ‘‘A+’’ by Standard & Poor’s and ‘‘A2’’ by Moody’s Investor Services. Top Layer Re is rated ‘‘AA’’ by Standard & Poor’s and ‘‘A+’’ by A.M. Best. Glencoe is rated ‘‘A−’’ by A.M. Best. DaVinci is rated ‘‘A’’ by each of A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s. In October 2006, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings and the issuer credit ratings of the operating subsidiaries of RenaissanceRe. These affirmations include the financial strength ratings of ‘‘A’’ and the issuer credit ratings of ‘‘a’’ of Renaissance Reinsurance, Renaissance Reinsurance of Europe and DaVinci; and the financial strength ratings of ‘‘A−’’ and the issuer credit ratings of ‘‘a−’’ of the operating subsidiaries of Glencoe Group. At such time, all of the ratings affirmed by A.M. Best were removed from under review and assigned a stable outlook. On December 11, 2006, A.M. Best raised its issuer credit ratings of Renaissance Reinsurance and Renaissance Reinsurance of Europe to ‘‘a+’’ from ‘‘a’’ and affirmed the financial strength ratings of ‘‘A’’ for these two subsidiaries, and the outlook for the ratings of Renaissance Reinsurance and Renaissance Reinsurance of Europe by A.M. Best was revised to positive from stable. These ratings are subject to periodic review and may be revised or revoked, by the agencies which issue them. In addition, following the higher levels of hurricane frequency in 2004 and 2005, we understand that the rating agencies may review whether or not to require insurance and reinsurance companies that retain catastrophe risk, such as ourselves, to hold a higher level of capital to support this risk, if the insurance or reinsurance companies are to maintain their ratings. While the ratings of Renaissance Reinsurance remain among the highest in our business, negative ratings actions in the future could have an adverse effect on our ability to fully realize the market opportunities we currently expect to participate in over coming periods. In addition, it is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain provisions permitting our clients to cancel coverage pro-rata if our relevant operating subsidiary is downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise this right would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, in the event of a further downgrade, it is not possible to predict in advance the extent to which this cancellation right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on the financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be material. To date we are not aware that we have experienced such a cancellation. The rating agencies may downgrade or withdraw their financial strength ratings in the future if we do not continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. Our ability to compete with other reinsurers and insurers, and our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected by any such ratings downgrade. For example, following a ratings downgrade we might lose clients to more highly rated competitors or retain a lower share of the business of our clients. The rating of Top Layer Re is dependent in large part upon the rating of State Farm, who provides Top Layer Re with $3.9 billion of stop loss reinsurance. Recent legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products in Florida and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In January 2007, the State of Florida enacted the Bill. Among other things, as a result of the Bill, the State of Florida now provides below market rate reinsurance of up to $28.0 billion per season, an increase from the previous cap of $16.0 billion, with the State able to further increase the limits up to an additional $4.0 billion per season. In addition, the legislation allows Florida insurers to choose a lower retention level for FHCF reinsurance coverage, at specified rates for specified layers of coverage. Further, the legislation expanded the ability of Citizens, a state-sponsored entity, to compete with private insurance and reinsurance companies, such as ours; by, for example, authorizing Citizens to write multi-peril policies in high-risk account coverage areas. Moreover, the legislation mandated a reduction of Citizens’ inforce rates by an average of 23%, repealed a 56% rate increase that was to be effective March 1, 2007, and froze any additional rate increases for the remainder of 2007. Also, 41 Table of Contents Citizens’ premium rates are no longer required to be non-competitive with the voluntary, private market and are no longer required to be based on the highest rate offered by the top 20 insurers in a given area. In sum, the legislation reduced the role of the private markets in providing support for Florida-based risks, a market in which we have established substantial market share. While we intend to seek to utilize our strong relationships, record of superior service and financial strength to mitigate the impact of the Bill, because of our position as one of the largest providers of catastrophe-exposed coverage, both on a global basis and in respect of the Florida market, the Bill may have a disproportionate adverse impact on us compared to other market participants. It is also possible that other states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, may enact new or expanded legislation based on the Florida precedent, which would further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. For example, Louisiana is considering setting up its own reinsurance fund similar to the FHCF and allowing Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company, a state-sponsored company, to compete with the private sector. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of the FHCF, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of Federal intervention in the Florida market, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry. Our claims and claim expense reserves are subject to inherent uncertainties. Our claims and claim expense reserves reflect our estimates using actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. Although we use actuarial and computer models as well as historical reinsurance and insurance industry loss statistics, we also rely heavily on management’s experience and judgment to assist in the establishment of appropriate claim reserves. However, because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk operations are expected to produce claims which frequently can only be resolved through lengthy and unpredictable litigation. The measures required to resolve such claims, including the adjudication process, present more reserve challenges than property losses (which tend to be reported comparatively more promptly and to be settled within a relatively shorter period of time). For both our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk operations, and our traditional property catastrophe business, actual net claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. We expect that some of our assumptions or estimates will prove to be inaccurate, and that our actual net claims and claim expenses paid will differ, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. To the extent that our actual claims and claim expenses exceed our expectations, we would be required to increase claims and claim expense reserves. This would reduce our net income by a corresponding amount in the period in which the deficiency is identified. In reserving for our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk coverages we do not have the benefit of a significant amount of our own historical experience in these lines. Our estimates of losses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, as well as the previously reported 2004 hurricanes and windstorms, are based on factors including currently available information derived from our claims information from clients and brokers, industry assessments of losses from the events, proprietary models, and the terms and conditions of our contracts. Due to the size and unusual complexity of the legal and claims issues relating to these recent events, particularly hurricane Katrina, meaningful uncertainty remains regarding total covered losses for the insurance industry and, accordingly, several of the key assumptions underlying our loss estimates. In addition, actual losses from these events may increase if our reinsurers or other obligors fail to meet their obligations to us. Our actual losses from these events will likely vary, perhaps materially, from these current estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in reserving for such losses, including the nature of the available information, the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the effects of any demand surge on claims activity and complex coverage and other legal issues. 42 Table of Contents Unlike the loss reserves of U.S. insurers, the loss reserves of our Bermuda insurers, including Renaissance Reinsurance, DaVinci and Glencoe, are not regularly examined by insurance regulators, although, as registered Bermuda insurers, we are required to submit opinions of our approved loss reserve specialist with the annual statutory financial returns of our Bermuda-licensed insurers with regard to their respective loss and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified actuary, must be approved by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. The emergence of matters which may impact certain of our coverages, such as the asserted trend toward significant global warming or the potential for significant industry losses from a possible avian flu pandemic, could cause us to underestimate our exposures and potentially adversely impact our financial results. In our Reinsurance business, we use analytic and modeling capabilities that help us to assess the risk and return of each reinsurance contract in relation to our overall portfolio of reinsurance contracts. For catastrophe-exposed business in our Individual Risk segment, we also seek to utilize proprietary modeling tools that have been developed in conjunction with the modeling and other resources utilized in our Reinsurance operations. See ‘‘Item 1. Business – Underwriting and Risk Management.’’ Our techniques for evaluating catastrophe risk in our Reinsurance and Individual Risk operations are not currently structured to predict certain types of risks. Our models may fail to adequately address the emergence of matters which may be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. Changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, for example, may have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in some parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Our models may be based on data and assumptions that do not accurately account for these emerging developments. Similarly, the likelihood or potential severity of insured losses from an outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1), is uncertain and may not be appropriately reflected in our models. While to date outbreaks of the avian flu continue to occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in Asia, parts of Europe, and recently in Africa, transmission to humans has been rare. If the virus mutates to a form that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the potential to spread rapidly worldwide. The contagion and mortality rate of any mutated H5N1 virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. Our models may understate the exposures we are assuming. If we fail to appropriately model, price for, and contractually address exposures for certain risks, our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. The reinsurance business is historically cyclical and the pricing and terms for our products may decline, which could affect our profitability. The reinsurance and insurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of decreasing prices followed by periods of increasing prices. Reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in their results of operations due to numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of the catastrophic events, perceptions of risk, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and underwriting results of other insurers and reinsurers. All of these factors fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the reinsurance and insurance industries. It is possible that, in light of current factors such as the increase of capital in our industry since the 2005 catastrophic events and the Florida legislation described above, we have entered or will shortly enter a period in which such price declines will be common. As noted, changes in the pricing environment may result from changes in the perception of risk following large industry loss events. In particular, the catastrophe-exposed lines in which we are a market leader are affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions, and acts of terrorism, such as hurricane Katrina and the World Trade Center disaster. The occurrence, or nonoccurrence, of catastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are inherently unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices of our products. We expect premium rates and other terms and conditions of trade to vary in the future. If demand for our products falls or the supply of competing capacity rises, we expect our growth to be adversely 43 Table of Contents affected, and our profitability could be affected as well. In particular, we might lose existing customers or decline business, which we might not regain when industry conditions improve. In addition, a substantial amount of capital has entered the insurance and reinsurance markets both through investments in established companies and through start-up ventures as described above. Hedge funds have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. Generally, we expect this trend to increase over time. It is possible that such new or alternative capital in or affecting the market could cause further reductions in prices of our products. To the extent that industry pricing of our products does not meet our hurdle rate, we would plan to reduce our future underwriting activities thus resulting in reduced premiums and a reduction in expected earnings. Because we depend on a few insurance and reinsurance brokers for a large portion of revenue, loss of business provided by them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide exclusively through insurance and reinsurance brokers. In recent years, we have experienced increased concentration of production from a smaller number of intermediaries. Four brokerage firms accounted for 90.1% of our Reinsurance segment gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2006. Subsidiaries and affiliates of the Benfield Group Limited, Marsh Inc., the Willis Group and AON Corporation accounted for approximately 40.6%, 25.4%, 14.3% and 9.8%, respectively, of our gross premiums written in 2006. The loss of a substantial portion of the business provided by these brokers would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to market our products could decline as a result of any loss of the business provided by these brokers and it is possible that our premiums written would decrease. Our reliance on reinsurance brokers exposes us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we pay virtually all amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us (we refer to these insurers as ceding insurers). Likewise, premiums due to us by ceding insurers are virtually all paid to brokers, who then pass such amounts on to us. In many jurisdictions, if a broker were to fail to make such a payment to a ceding insurer, we would remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in many jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid by the cedants and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, in connection with the settlement of reinsurance balances, we assume a substantial degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world. As noted above, due to recent developments in the industry, we believe that the degree of this credit risk has increased. Heightened scrutiny of issues and practices in the insurance industry may adversely affect our business. The SEC, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York (the ‘‘NYAG’’), the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, and other government authorities are scrutinizing and investigating a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry. It is possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate or otherwise give rise to changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs or requires us to alter how we conduct our business. We cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations, and any changes in industry practice, including future legislation or regulations that may become applicable to us, will have on the insurance industry, the regulatory framework, or our business. Because we frequently assume the credit risk of the brokers with whom we do business throughout our insurance and reinsurance operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the credit quality of these brokers is severely impacted by the current investigations in the insurance industry or by changes to broker industry practices. 44 Table of Contents We could be adversely impacted by U.S. government authority investigations into non-traditional, or loss mitigation, (re)insurance products, as well as our restatement of our financial statements. We received a subpoena from the SEC in February 2005, a subpoena from the NYAG in March 2005, and a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York in June 2005, each of which related to the industry-wide investigations into non-traditional, or loss mitigation, (re)insurance products. The subpoenas from the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office also related to our business practice review and to our determination to restate our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. In addition, we understand that certain of our customers or reinsurers may have been asked to provide or have provided documents and information with respect to contracts to which we are a party in the framework of the ongoing industry-wide investigations. On February 6, 2007, we announced that the SEC had accepted our offer of settlement to resolve the SEC’s investigation, pursuant to which we have consented, without admitting or denying any wrongdoing, to entry of a final judgment enjoining future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws, and to pay disgorgement of $1 and a civil penalty of $15.0 million. We will also retain an independent consultant to review certain of our internal controls, policies and procedures as well as the design and implementation of the review conducted by independent counsel reporting to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors and certain additional procedures performed by our auditors in connection with their audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The amount of the monetary penalty discussed above was provided for in 2005. At this time, the settlement remains subject to approval by the court. We can give no assurances that the settlement will receive the necessary approval from the court. If the settlement is not approved, we could be subject to different or additional remedies, both monetary and non-monetary, which could adversely affect our business or financial statements, perhaps materially. While we will strive to fully comply with the settlement agreement with the SEC, it is possible that the enforcement staff of the SEC or the independent consultant may take issue with our cooperation despite our efforts. Any such failure to comply with the settlement agreement or to be perceived to have failed to so comply could adversely affect us, perhaps materially so. In September 2006, the SEC filed an enforcement action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against James N. Stanard, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Martin J. Merritt, our former controller, and Michael W. Cash, a former officer of RenaissanceRe charging Messrs. Stanard, Merritt and Cash with violations of federal securities laws, including securities fraud, and seeks permanent injunctive relief, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, if any, plus prejudgment interest, civil money penalties, and orders barring each defendant from acting as an officer or director of any public company. This ongoing matter could give rise to additional costs, distractions, or impacts to our reputation. It is possible that the ongoing investigation into our former officers could give rise to additional investigations or proceedings being commenced against us and/or our current or former senior executives in connection with these matters, which could be criminal or civil. Retrocessional reinsurance may become unavailable on acceptable terms. As part of our risk management, we buy reinsurance for our own account. This type of insurance when purchased to protect reinsurance companies is known as ‘‘retrocessional reinsurance.’’ Our primary insurance companies also buy reinsurance from third parties. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance treaty with us could have a material adverse effect on us. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such retrocessional reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms as favorable to us as in the past. This could limit the amount of business we are willing to write, or decrease the protection available to us as a result of large loss events. 45 Table of Contents When we purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance for our own account, the insolvency, inability or reluctance of any of our reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. Generally, we believe that the ‘‘willingness to pay’’ of some reinsurers and retrocessionaires is declining, and that the overall industry ability to pay has also declined due to the adverse results of 2005 and 2004 and other factors. This risk is more significant to us at present than at most times in the past given the substantial retrocessional claims to which we are entitled following the recent large catastrophe loss events of 2005 and 2004. At December 31, 2006, we had recorded $301.9 million of reinsurance recoverables, net of a valuation allowance of $21.9 million for uncollectible recoverables. Our reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2006 include $131.4 million with three ceding companies. Emerging claim and coverage issues, or other litigation, could adversely affect us. Unanticipated developments in the law as well as changes in social and environmental conditions could potentially result in unexpected claims for coverage under our insurance and reinsurance contracts. These developments and changes may adversely affect us, perhaps materially so. For example, we could be subject to developments that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. With respect to our specialty reinsurance and Individual Risk operations, these legal, social and environmental changes may not become apparent until some time after their occurrence. For example, we could be deemed liable for losses arising out of a matter, such as the potential for industry losses arising out of an avian flu pandemic, that we had not anticipated or had attempted to contractually exclude. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by the increased willingness of some market participants to dispute insurance and reinsurance contract and policy wordings. Alternatively, potential efforts by us to exclude such exposures could, if successful, reduce the market’s acceptance of our related products. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. As a result, the full extent of our liability under our coverages may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our exposure to this uncertainty will grow as our ‘‘long-tail’’ casualty businesses grow, because in these lines claims can typically be made for many years, making them more susceptible to these trends than our traditional catastrophe business, which is typically more ‘‘short-tail.’’ In addition, we could be adversely affected by the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting participants in the property-liability insurance industry in purported class action litigation relating to claim handling and other practices. Although we are seeking to add professional staff and systems to improve our contracts and claims capabilities, we may fail to mitigate our exposure to these growing uncertainties. Beginning in July 2005, several putative class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in respect of RenaissanceRe. In December 2005, these actions were consolidated and in February 2006, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Complaint, purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased and/or acquired the publicly traded securities of RenaissanceRe between April 22, 2003 and July 25, 2005. The Consolidated Amended Complaint, which was amended in December 2006, names as defendants, in addition to RenaissanceRe, current and former officers of RenaissanceRe (Messrs. Stanard, William I. Riker, John M. Lummis, Cash and Merritt) and alleges that RenaissanceRe and the other named defendants violated the U.S. federal securities laws by making material misstatements and failing to state material facts about our business and financial condition in, among other things, SEC filings and public statements. The Consolidated Amended Complaint, as amended, seeks compensatory damages without specifying an amount. On February 14, 2007, we executed a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs’ representatives setting forth an agreement in principle to settle the claims alleged in the Consolidated Amended Complaint, as amended. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement in principle, we did not make any admission of liability, and we continue to deny any and all liability in connection with the allegations of the Consolidated Amended Complaint, as amended. The total amount to be paid in settlement of the claims is $13.5 million. A portion of this amount is expected to be offset by insurance recoveries. These amounts have been provided for in our financial statements. The settlement provides for the full release of all parties, including the Company and our present and former directors and officers, 46 Table of Contents including without limitation the defendants who were named in the suits. The settlement is subject to, among other things, court review and approval and other customary conditions. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and property catastrophe reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Market participants continue to raise and accumulate new capital, thereby strengthening their ability to compete. In addition, alternative sources of competitive capital, including hedge funds, are increasing the overall capacity in the industry. Increased capacity levels in our industry generally have led to increased competition. We believe that our principal competitors in the property catastrophe reinsurance market include other companies active in the Bermuda market, including Ace Limited, Aspen Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group Ltd., IPC Holdings, Ltd., PartnerRe Ltd. and XL Capital Ltd. We also compete with certain Lloyd’s syndicates active in the London market, as well as with a number of other industry participants, such as AIG, Berkshire, Munich Re Group and Swiss Re. In addition, there are other relatively new Bermuda reinsurers with whom we compete, such as Allied World Assurance Company, Arch, Axis Capital Holdings Limited, Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd. and Platinum. As our business evolves over time we expect our competitors to change as well. Following hurricane Katrina in August 2005, a significant number of new reinsurance companies were formed in Bermuda which have resulted, in 2006, in new competition, which may well continue in subsequent periods. There has been substantial new capital contributed to these new Bermuda-based reinsurance enterprises. In addition, we believe existing reinsurance companies raised significant new capital subsequent to hurricane Katrina to rebuild their capital position and to capitalize on new opportunities. Also, hedge funds have shown increasing interest in entering the reinsurance market, either through the formation of reinsurance companies, or through the use of other financial products. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the reinsurance market or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. We also continue to experience a degree of competition from alternative products from capital market participants that are intended to compete with reinsurance products and which could impact the demand for traditional catastrophe reinsurance. We believe activity in this sector has recently increased and may continue to increase. We cannot predict what effect any of these developments may have on our businesses. The businesses in which our Individual Risk unit operates are also highly competitive. Primary insurers compete on the basis of factors including distribution channels, product, price, service and financial strength. Many of our primary insurance competitors are larger and more established than we are and have greater financial resources and consumer recognition. We seek primary insurance pricing that will result in adequate returns on the capital allocated to our primary insurance business. We may lose primary insurance business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices or on more advantageous terms. U.S. taxing authorities could contend that one or more of our Bermuda subsidiaries are subject to U.S. corporate income tax. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the ‘‘IRS’’) were to contend successfully that Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci or Top Layer Re is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci or Top Layer Re would, to the extent not exempted from tax by the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty, be subject to U.S. corporate income tax on that portion of its net income treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, as well as the U.S. corporate branch profits tax. Although we would vigorously resist such a contention, if we were ultimately held to be subject to taxation, our earnings would correspondingly decline. In addition, benefits of the U.S.-Bermuda income tax treaty which may limit any such tax to income attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci 47 Table of Contents or Top Layer Re in the U.S. are only available to any of Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci or Top Layer Re if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci or Top Layer Re may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. Finally, it should be noted that it is unclear whether the income tax treaty (assuming satisfaction of the beneficial ownership test) applies to income other than premium income, such as investment income. The loss of key senior members of management could adversely affect us. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain our executive officers. In particular, we believe we are substantially dependent upon the services of our senior members of management, who include our co-founder and current Chief Executive Officer; the Presidents of RenaissanceRe, Renaissance Reinsurance and Ventures; each of whom has served with us for more than ten years, and our Chief Executive Officer of Glencoe Group. Although we are not aware of any planned departures, the loss of one or more of our executive officers, including but not limited to the persons named above, could adversely impact our business; by, for example, making it more difficult to retain clients or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing executives. In addition, the loss of services of these executives, or other members of senior management in the future, and the uncertain transition of new members of our senior management team, could strain our ability to execute our initiatives, as described above. In general, the loss of the services of any members of our current senior management team may adversely affect our business, perhaps materially so. In addition, our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract and retain a staff of qualified underwriters and service personnel. The location of our global headquarters in Bermuda may impede our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without the specific permission of the appropriate government authority. The Bermuda government will issue a work permit for a specific period of time, which may be extended upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standards for the advertised position. Substantially all of our officers are working in Bermuda under work permits that will expire over the next three years. The Bermuda government could refuse to extend these work permits. In addition, a Bermuda government policy limits the duration of work permits to a total of six years, which is subject to certain exemptions only for key employees. If any of our senior executive officers were not permitted to remain in Bermuda, our operations could be disrupted and our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result. A decline in our investment performance could reduce our profitability. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets, in amounts which have increased in recent years driven by factors including the increased size of our invested assets. As a result, our financial results depend in increasing part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which contains fixed maturity securities, such as bonds and mortgage-backed securities. Our operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. Additionally, with respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. As our invested assets have grown substantially in recent years and have come to effect a comparably greater contribution to our financial results, a failure to successfully execute our investment strategy could have a significant adverse effect on our overall results. The market value of our fixed maturity investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates. As a result of large reinsurance or insurance losses, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. 48 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could cause the market value of our investment portfolio to decrease, perhaps substantially. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could reduce our investment yield, which would reduce our overall profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity. In recent years we have allocated a portion of our portfolio to other investments which have different risk characteristics than our traditional fixed maturity securities and short term investment portfolios. These other investments include private equity partnerships, hedge fund investments, a fund that invests in senior secured bank loans, a European high yield credit fund and catastrophe bonds. Also included in other investments are investments in a medium term note, representing an interest in a pool of European fixed income securities, a non-U.S. dollar convertible fund and miscellaneous other investments. We have been decreasing our percentage allocation to these other investments, particularly hedge funds. The performance of these other investments had a positive impact on the performance of our investment portfolio in 2005 and 2006, and accordingly our decreased relative allocation to these investments could reduce the returns on our portfolio, adversely affecting our overall profitability. These other investments are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The fair value of certain of these investments is generally established on the basis of the net valuation criteria established by the managers of such investments. These net valuations are determined based upon the valuation criteria established by the governing documents of the investments. Due to a lag in the valuations reported by the fund managers, the majority of our other investments are reported on a one month or one quarter lag. Such valuations may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had ready markets existed for the shares, partnership interests or notes of the investments. Many of the investments are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales which are determined by the governing documents and limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short term. These investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. We are unable to precisely quantify these risks as we do not have timely access to the securities underlying each investment. To the extent these risks move against us it could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance. The performance of these investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and the investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. Given our reliance on external investment managers, we could also be exposed to the operational risks, for example, but not limited to, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans of our investment managers. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. The capital requirements of our business depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to underwrite is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to support our future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any further equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Our ability to raise such capital successfully would depend upon the facts and circumstances at the time, including our financial position and operating results, market conditions, and applicable legal issues. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital if and when needed, our business, results of operation and financial condition would be adversely affected. 49 Table of Contents Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us. We believe that many insurance industry participants are seeking to consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operation. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (‘‘OECD’’) and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a ‘‘Global Forum,’’ Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by the U.S. and individual state governments as well as an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Increasingly, governmental authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide seem to us to be interested in the potential risks posed by the reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful new risks posed by the reinsurance industry, and we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, such as the legislation enacted in Florida in early 2007; • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • expand the scope of coverage under existing policies for matters such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, and the New Orleans flood, or such as a pandemic flu outbreak; • increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another. In particular, the legislation enacted by the State of Florida relating to the FHCF, Citizens and related matters could be expanded in scope or in duration, furthering its adverse impact on the private 50 Table of Contents markets and us. It is also possible that other states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, or the Federal government, may enact new or expanded legislation based on the Florida precedent, which would further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of the FHCF, which could lead either to a severe industry dislocation or the necessity of Federal intervention in the Florida market, either of which could adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry. The growth of our primary insurance business, which is regulated more comprehensively than reinsurance, increases our exposure to adverse political, judicial and legal developments. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal operating companies are domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading European Union countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position in respect of future regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. We could be adversely affected if TRIA is not renewed. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11th tragedy, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, commonly referred to as ‘‘TRIA’’, was enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 (as amended, through the end of 2007) to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. TRIA was originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2005, but was extended in December 2005 for an additional two years. The extended bill reduced the protections of the act. For example, as extended, the insurer deductible was increased from 15% in 2005 to 17.5% in 2006 and 20% in 2007. In addition, the extended TRIA established a new program trigger under which Federal compensation will become available only if aggregate insured losses sustained by all insurers exceed $50.0 million from a certified act of terrorism occurring after March 31, 2006 and $100.0 million for losses resulting from a certified act which occurs on or after January 1, 2007. We believe TRIA has been an effective mechanism to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme contingent losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. We cannot assure you that TRIA will be extended beyond 2007, and its expiration could have an adverse effect on our clients, industry or us. The covenants in our debt agreements limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. At December 31, 2006, we had an aggregate of $553.1 million of indebtedness outstanding, consisting of $100.0 million of 5.875% Senior Notes due 2013, $150.0 million of 7.0% Senior Notes due 2008, $103.1 million of 8.54% subordinated obligation to the Capital Trust, and a $200.0 million bank loan incurred and fully drawn by our consolidated subsidiary, DaVinciRe. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries maintain letter of credit facilities in connection with their insurance and reinsurance business. The largest of these is a secured letter of credit facility established under a reimbursement agreement entered into by certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates. The obligations of each of our subsidiaries and affiliates party to the reimbursement agreement are secured by certain collateral, including cash, eligible high-quality marketable securities and redeemable preference shares of RIHL. The facility currently is in the amount of $1.725 billion. At February 12, 2007, the aggregate face amount of letters of credit outstanding under the reimbursement agreement with effective dates on or before December 31, 2006 was $1.149 billion and total letters of credit outstanding under all facilities was $1.187 billion. 51 Table of Contents The agreements covering our indebtedness, particularly our bank loans, contain numerous covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. These agreements also require us to maintain specific financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facilities could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them, cancel their commitments to lend or issue letters of credit, or both, and require us to pledge additional or a different type of collateral. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and payments from our subsidiaries. As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on investment income, cash dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on our debt and to pay dividends to our shareholders. The holding company does not have any operations and from time to time may not have significant liquid assets. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may be unable to pay dividends or to repay our indebtedness. Bermuda law and regulations require our subsidiaries which are registered in Bermuda as insurers to maintain a minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio, and prohibit dividends that would result in a breach of these requirements. Further, Renaissance Reinsurance and DaVinci, as Class 4 insurers in Bermuda, may not pay dividends which would exceed 25% of their respective capital and surplus, unless they first make filings confirming that they meet the required margins. Our Class 3 insurers, including Glencoe, Lantana and Top Layer Re, may not declare or pay dividends during any financial year that would cause that insurer (as the case may be) to fail to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio. Generally, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries may only pay dividends out of earned surplus. Further, the amount payable without the prior approval of the applicable state insurance department is generally limited to the greater of 10% of policyholders’ surplus or statutory capital, or 100% of the subsidiary’s prior year statutory net income. Since our U.S. insurance subsidiaries’ earned surplus is negative, these subsidiaries cannot currently pay dividends without the applicable state insurance department approval. Regulatory challenges in the U.S. or elsewhere to our Bermuda operations’ claims of exemption from insurance regulation could restrict our ability to operate, increase our costs, or otherwise adversely impact us. Renaissance Reinsurance, DaVinci and Top Layer Re are not licensed or admitted in any jurisdiction except Bermuda. Renaissance Reinsurance, Glencoe, DaVinci and Top Layer Re each conduct business only from their principal offices in Bermuda and do not maintain an office in the U.S. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and various states within the U.S. If our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies. Moreover, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the future with respect to competitors that are licensed and admitted in U.S. jurisdictions. Among other things, jurisdictions in the U.S. do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted. Our contracts generally require us to post a letter of credit or provide other security after a reinsured reports a claim. In order to post these letters of credit, issuing banks generally require collateral. It is possible that the European Union or other countries might adopt a similar regime in the future, or that U.S. rules could be altered in a way that treats Bermuda disproportionately. Any such development could adversely affect us. Glencoe and Lantana are currently eligible, non-admitted excess and surplus lines insurers in, respectively, 51 and 49 states and territories of the U.S. and are each subject to certain regulatory and reporting requirements of these states. However, neither Glencoe nor Lantana is admitted or licensed in any U.S. jurisdiction; moreover, Glencoe only conducts business from Bermuda. Accordingly, the scope of Glencoe’s and Lantana’s activities in the U.S. is limited, which could adversely affect their ability to compete. 52 Table of Contents In addition, Stonington, which writes insurance in all 50 states and the District of Columbia on an admitted basis, is subject to extensive regulation under state statutes which confer regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers on state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors, and relates to such matters as: rate setting; policy forms; limitations on dividends and transactions with affiliates; solvency standards which must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the examination of the affairs of insurance companies, which includes periodic market conduct examinations by the regulatory authorities; annual and other reports, prepared on a statutory accounting basis; establishment and maintenance of reserves for unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous other matters. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with these requirements, and could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. We plan to grow Stonington’s business and, accordingly, expect our absolute and relative regulatory burden to increase. Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our subsidiaries to become subject to additional regulation in other jurisdictions. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. Operational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours. We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or external events. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex we are exposed to more risk in these areas. Our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our success. Moreover, our proprietary technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting strategy and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. While we have implemented disaster recovery and other business contingency plans, a defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in reduced or delayed revenue growth, higher than expected losses, management distraction, or harm to our reputation. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. A portion of our premium is written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and a portion of our claims and claim expense reserves is also in non-dollar currencies. Moreover, we maintain a portion of our cash and investments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we generally seek to hedge significant non-U.S. dollar positions, we may, from time to time, experience losses resulting solely from fluctuations in the values of these foreign currencies, which could cause our consolidated earnings to decrease. In addition, failure to manage our foreign currency exposures could cause our results of operations to be more volatile. Some aspects of our corporate structure may discourage third-party takeovers and other transactions or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Bye-Laws have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or preventing the removal of our current board of directors and management. In particular, our Bye-Laws prohibit transfers of our capital 53 Table of Contents shares if the transfer would result in a person owning or controlling shares that constitute 9.9% or more of any class or series of our shares. The primary purpose of this restriction is to reduce the likelihood that we will be deemed a ‘‘controlled foreign corporation’’ within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, this limit may also have the effect of deterring purchases of large blocks of common shares or proposals to acquire us, even if some or a majority of our shareholders might deem these purchases or acquisition proposals to be in their best interests. In addition, our Bye-Laws provide for: • a classified Board, whose size is fixed and whose members may be removed by the shareholders only for cause upon a 66 2/3% vote; • restrictions on the ability of shareholders to nominate persons to serve as directors, submit resolutions to a shareholder vote and requisition special general meetings; • a large number of authorized but unissued shares which may be issued by the Board without further shareholder action; and • a 66 2/3% shareholder vote to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with several provisions of the Bye-Laws. These Bye-Law provisions make it more difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our directors, which we believe would generally best serve the interests of our shareholders. However, these provisions could have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these Bye-Law provisions could prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. To the extent these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or could depress the market price of the shares. We indirectly own Stonington, Stonington Lloyds, Newstead and Inverness. Our ownership of a U.S. insurance company such as these can, under applicable state insurance company laws and regulations, delay or impede a change of control of RenaissanceRe. It is possible that we will form, acquire or invest in other U.S. domestic insurance companies in the future, which could make this risk more severe. Under applicable state insurance regulations, any proposed purchase of 10% or more of our voting securities would require the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulatory authorities. Investors may have difficulties in serving process or enforcing judgments against us in the U.S. We are a Bermuda company. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the U.S. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the U.S. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws whether or not we appoint an agent in the U.S. to receive service of process. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain a website at http://www.renre.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge through our website, our financial information, including the information contained in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We also make available, free of charge from our website, our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation/Governance Committee Charter, Corporate 54 Table of Contents Governance Guidelines and Statement of Policies, and Code of Ethics and Conduct (‘‘Code of Ethics’’). Such information is also available in print for any shareholder who sends a request to RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd., Attn: Office of the Corporate Secretary, P.O. Box HM 2527, Hamilton, HMGX, Bermuda. Reports filed with the SEC may also be viewed or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 55 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE TERMS Accident year Year of occurrence of a loss. Claim payments and reserves for claims and claim expenses are allocated to the year in which the loss occurred for losses occurring contracts and in the year the loss was reported for claims made contracts. Acquisition expenses The aggregate expenses incurred by a company acquiring new business, including commissions, underwriting expenses, premium taxes and administrative expenses. Additional case reserves Additional case reserves represent management’s estimate of reserves for claims and claim expenses that are allocated to specific contracts, less paid and reported losses by the client. Attachment point The dollar amount of loss (per occurrence or in the aggregate, as the case may be) above which excess of loss reinsurance becomes operative. Backup premiums written The premiums written for additional reinsurance coverage purchased after a series of catastrophic events has exhausted or significantly reduced the initial and reinstatement limits available under the original coverages purchased. Bordereau A report providing premium or loss data with respect to identified specific risks. This report is periodically furnished to a reinsurer by the ceding insurers or reinsurers. Broker An intermediary who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance, receiving a commission for placement and other services rendered, between (1) a policy holder and a primary insurer, on behalf of the insured party, (2) a primary insurer and reinsurer, on behalf of the primary insurer, or (3) a reinsurer and a retrocessionaire, on behalf of the reinsurer. Capacity The percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions. Case reserves Loss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims. Casualty insurance or reinsurance Insurance or reinsurance that is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons and their property (in other words, persons other than the policyholder) and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting there from. Also referred to as liability insurance. Catastrophe A severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or 56 Table of Contents man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a ‘‘catastrophe.’’ Cede; cedant; ceding company When a party reinsures its liability with another, it ‘‘cedes’’ business and is referred to as the ‘‘cedant’’ or ‘‘ceding company.’’ Claim Request by an insured or reinsured for indemnification by an insurance company or a reinsurance company for losses incurred from an insured peril or event. Claims made contracts Contracts that cover claims for losses occurring during a specified period that are reported during the term of the contract. Claims and claim expense ratio, net The ratio of net claims and claim expenses to net premiums earned determined in accordance with either SAP or GAAP. Claim reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated costs of claim payments and the related expenses that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance policies it has issued. Claims reserves consist of case reserves, established with respect to individual reported claims, additional case reserves and ‘‘IBNR’’ reserves. For reinsurers, loss expense reserves are generally not significant because substantially all of the loss expenses associated with particular claims are incurred by the primary insurer and reported to reinsurers as losses. Combined ratio The combined ratio is the sum of the net claims and claim expense ratio and the underwriting expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% generally indicates profitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates unprofitable underwriting prior to the consideration of investment income. Earned premium (1) That part of the premium applicable to the expired part of the policy period, including the short-rate premium on cancellation, the entire premium on the amount of loss paid under some contracts, and the entire premium on the contract on the expiration of the policy, which is recognized as income during the period. (2) That portion of the reinsurance premium calculated on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis which is to be retained by the reinsurer and recognized as income in the period should their cession be canceled. (3) When a premium is paid in advance for a certain time, the company is said to ‘‘earn’’ the premium as the time advances. For 57 Table of Contents example, a policy written for three years and paid for in advance would be one-third earned at the end of the first year. Excess and surplus lines reinsurance Any type of coverage that cannot be placed with an insurer admitted to do business in a certain jurisdiction. Risks placed in excess and surplus lines markets are often substandard as respects adverse loss experience, unusual, or unable to be placed in conventional markets due to a shortage of capacity. Excess of loss Reinsurance or insurance that indemnifies the reinsured or insured against all or a specified portion of losses on underlying insurance policies in excess of a specified amount, which is called a ‘‘level’’ or ‘‘retention.’’ Also known as non-proportional reinsurance. Excess of loss reinsurance is written in layers. A reinsurer or group of reinsurers accepts a layer of coverage up to a specified amount. The total coverage purchased by the cedant is referred to as a ‘‘program’’ and will typically be placed with predetermined reinsurers in pre-negotiated layers. Any liability exceeding the outer limit of the program reverts to the ceding company, which also bears the credit risk of a reinsurer’s insolvency. Exclusions Those risk, perils, or classes of insurance with respect to which the reinsurer will not pay loss or provide reinsurance, notwithstanding the other terms and conditions of reinsurance. Frequency The number of claims occurring during a given coverage period. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States Also referred to as GAAP. Accounting principles as set forth in opinions of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and/or statements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and/or their respective successors and which are applicable in the circumstances as of the date in question. Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance written and assumed reinsurance during a given period. Incurred but not reported (‘‘IBNR’’) Reserves for estimated losses that have been incurred by insureds and reinsureds but not yet reported to the insurer or reinsurer, including unknown future developments on losses that are known to the insurer or reinsurer. Layer The interval between the retention or attachment point and the maximum limit of indemnity for which a reinsurer is responsible. Line of business The general classification of insurance written by insurers, e.g., fire, allied lines and homeowners, among others. Loss; losses An occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Whether losses are covered, limited or excluded from coverage is dependant on the terms of the policy. 58 Table of Contents Losses occurring contracts Contracts that cover claims arising from loss events that occur during the term of the reinsurance contract, although not necessarily reported during the term of the contract. Loss ratio Net claims incurred expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums. Loss reserve For an individual loss, an estimate of the amount the insurer expects to pay for the reported claim. For total losses, estimates of expected payments for reported and unreported claims. These may include amounts for claims expenses. Net claims and claim expenses The expenses of settling claims net of recoveries, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs (also known as claim adjustment expenses) plus losses incurred with respect to net claims. Net premiums earned The portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was actually recognized as income during such period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written for a given period less premiums ceded to reinsurers and retrocessionaires during such period. No claims bonus A reduction of premiums assumed or ceded if no claims have been made within a specified period. Non-proportional reinsurance See ‘‘Excess of loss.’’ Perils This term refers to the causes of possible loss in the property field, such as fire, windstorm, collision, hail, etc. In the casualty field, the term ‘‘hazard’’ is more frequently used. Premiums; written, earned and unearned The amount charged during the term on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance company or reinsurance company. Written premium is premium registered on the books of an issuer or reinsurer at the time a policy is issued and paid for. Unearned premium is premium for a future exposure period. Earned premium is written premium minus unearned premium for an individual policy. Property insurance or reinsurance Insurance or reinsurance that provides coverage to a person with an insurable interest in tangible property for that person’s property loss, damage or loss of use. Property per risk treaty reinsurance Reinsurance on a treaty basis of individual property risks insured by a ceding company. Proportional reinsurance A generic term describing all forms of reinsurance in which the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the original premiums and losses of the reinsured. (Also known as pro rata reinsurance, quota share reinsurance or participating reinsurance.) In proportional 59 Table of Contents reinsurance the reinsurer generally pays the ceding company a ceding commission. The ceding commission generally is based on the ceding company’s cost of acquiring the business being reinsured (including commissions, premium taxes, assessments and miscellaneous administrative expense) and also may include a profit factor. See also ‘‘Quota Share Reinsurance’’ and ‘‘Surplus Share Reinsurance.’’ Quota share reinsurance A form of proportional reinsurance in which the reinsurer assumes an agreed percentage of each insurance being reinsured and shares all premiums and losses according with the reinsured. See also ‘‘Proportional Reinsurance’’ and ‘‘Surplus Share Reinsurance.’’ Reinstatement premium The premium charged for the restoration of the reinsurance limit of a catastrophe contract to its full amount after payment by the reinsurer of losses as a result of an occurrence. Reinsurance An arrangement in which an insurance company, the reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurance or reinsurance company, the ceding company, against all or a portion of the insurance or reinsurance risks underwritten by the ceding company under one or more policies. Reinsurance can provide a ceding company with several benefits, including a reduction in net liability on individual risks and catastrophe protection from large or multiple losses. Reinsurance also provides a ceding company with additional underwriting capacity by permitting it to accept larger risks and write more business than would be possible without a concomitant increase in capital and surplus, and facilitates the maintenance of acceptable financial ratios by the ceding company. Reinsurance does not legally discharge the primary insurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the insured. Retention The amount or portion of risk that an insurer retains for its own account. Losses in excess of the retention level are paid by the reinsurer. In proportional treaties, the retention may be a percentage of the original policy’s limit. In excess of loss business, the retention is a dollar amount of loss, a loss ratio or a percentage. Retrocessional reinsurance; Retrocessionaire A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause primary insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity. Risk excess of loss reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance that covers a loss of the reinsured on a single ‘‘risk’’ in excess of its retention level of the type reinsured, rather than to aggregate losses for all covered risks, as does catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance. A ‘‘risk’’ in this 60 Table of Contents context might mean the insurance coverage on one building or a group of buildings or the insurance coverage under a single policy, which the reinsured treats as a single risk. Risks A term used to denote the physical units of property at risk or the object of insurance protection that are not perils or hazards. Also defined as chance of loss or uncertainty of loss. Risks attaching contracts Contracts that cover claims that arise on underlying insurance policies that incept during the term of the reinsurance contract. Specialty lines Lines of insurance and reinsurance that provide coverage for risks that are often unusual or difficult to place and do not fit the underwriting criteria of standard commercial products carriers. Statutory accounting principles (‘‘SAP’’) Recording transactions and preparing financial statements in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed or permitted by Bermuda and/or the U.S. state insurance regulatory authorities including the NAIC, which in general reflect a liquidating, rather than going concern, concept of accounting. Stop loss A form of reinsurance under which the reinsurer pays some or all of a cedant’s aggregate retained losses in excess of a predetermined dollar amount or in excess of a percentage of premium. Submission An unprocessed application for (i) insurance coverage forwarded to a primary insurer by a prospective policyholder or by a broker on behalf of such prospective policyholder, (ii) reinsurance coverage forwarded to a reinsurer by a prospective ceding insurer or by a broker or intermediary on behalf of such prospective ceding insurer or (iii) retrocessional coverage forwarded to a retrocessionaire by a prospective ceding reinsurer or by a broker or intermediary on behalf of such prospective ceding reinsurer. Surplus share reinsurance A form of pro rata reinsurance (proportional) indemnifying the ceding company against loss to the extent of the surplus insurance liability ceded, on a share basis similar to quota share. See also ‘‘Proportional Reinsurance’’ and ‘‘Quota Share Reinsurance.’’ Total managed cat premium The total catastrophe reinsurance premiums written on a gross basis by our managed catastrophe joint ventures as well as by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Treaty A reinsurance agreement covering a book or class of business that is automatically accepted on a bulk basis by a reinsurer. A treaty contains common contract terms along with a specific risk definition, data on limit and retention, and provisions for premium and duration. Underwriting The insurer’s or reinsurer’s process of reviewing applications submitted for insurance coverage, deciding whether to accept all or part of the coverage requested and determining the applicable premiums. 61 Table of Contents Underwriting capacity The maximum amount that an insurance company can underwrite. The limit is generally determined by the company’s retained earnings and investment capital. Reinsurance serves to increase a company’s underwriting capacity by reducing its exposure from particular risks. Underwriting expense ratio The ratio of the sum of the acquisition expenses and operational expenses to net premiums earned, determined in accordance with GAAP. Underwriting expenses The aggregate of policy acquisition costs, including commissions, and the portion of administrative, general and other expenses attributable to underwriting operations. Unearned premium The portion of premiums written representing the unexpired portions of the policies or contracts that the insurer or reinsurer has on its books as of a certain date. 62 Table of Contents ITEM 