Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. We are subject to certain contingent liabilities that may limit our available cash resources. Although we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our needs for at least the current fiscal year, we are subject to contingent liabilities which may affect our liquidity or limit our available cash resources. We are currently the subject of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to fiscal and tax years 1999 through 2002. For those years under review we received tax refunds of approximately $32.3 million. On December 21, 2005 the Internal Revenue Service issued to the Company a Notice of Deficiency asserting that the Company was liable for additional taxes in the approximate amount of $26.8 million. The Company has filed a Petition in the United States Tax Court contesting the determination made by the IRS. Based upon the advice of counsel, the Company is vigorously contesting the asserted liability. The Company previously conservatively estimated and reserved $33.5 million to cover the tax, penalty and interest which could be due should the IRS prevail in its determination. A basis of settlement for this determination was reached with the IRS in May 2007, which will not become final until stipulated decision documents are filed with the Tax Court. The Company has chosen not to make any changes to its provision for tax or the amounts reserved for settlement, pending the Tax Court’s acceptance or denial of such documents. There can be no assurance that such settlement will be accepted by the Tax Court as filed. Accordingly, we cannot determine at this stage what effect the resolution of this matter will have on our liquidity. We also have been named as one of many defendants in a class action suit alleging that we, in concert with the other defendants, conspired to fix prices for the sale of SRAM products. Although we have subsequently sold this business and we currently do not believe these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the company, we may incur significant legal costs and may not be able to be excused from this proceeding, which could limit our liquidity. In addition, we cannot provide assurances regarding the outcome of these lawsuits. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We have dedicated significant resources to remediate the material weaknesses that previously rendered our internal control ineffective. With the sale of our operating business units and venture investments, a significant number of the prior controls no longer apply, eliminating the risk from any inability to remediate weaknesses with respect to those controls. While those controls no longer applied as businesses were sold off and converted to cash, the risk of material misstatement also declined significantly. As of March 31, 2007 the company primarily holds cash investments and has no material operations remaining. Because of this, the remaining operative controls focused on cash and treasury management. 8 Table of Contents Nonetheless, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, and, in the course of future testing and documentation, certain deficiencies may be discovered that will require additional remediation, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our financial condition is likely to fluctuate and failure to meet financial expectations for any period may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue has historically been subject to fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions. As discussed in the section entitled “Overview” in Item 1 of Part I, we have sold each of our operating business units, and have exited the semiconductor business that had previously characterized our company. Also, as noted in that same section, we have completed the sale of our Alliance Venture investments portfolio and our Solar Venture Partners investment. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on these comparisons as indications of future performance. These factors, together with the fact that our expense is primarily fixed and independent of revenue in any particular period, make it difficult for us to accurately predict our income and may cause it to be below market analysts’ expectations in some future quarters, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: • NASDAQ’s decision to delist our stock from the NASDAQ Global Market on September 13, 2006, which may adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of our common stock and cause the value of an investment in our company to substantially decrease; • variations between our results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; • announcements by us of significant transactions; • the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories, especially as compared to the investment profiles of our stockholders at a given time; • changes in economic and capital market conditions; • changes in business regulatory conditions; and • the trading volume of our common stock. We may face expenses as a result of ongoing obligations in connection with the disposition of our operating business units. We are subject to certain ongoing obligations, including indemnification obligations, in connection with the disposition of our operating business units. Among other things, we are obligated to indemnify the purchasers of the assets of our operating business units against certain third party intellectual property claims. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have from time to time received, and believe that the purchasers of the assets of our operating business units may in the future receive, notices alleging that our products, or the processes used to manufacture our products, infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of any third-party claims, or claims against us for indemnification related to such third-party claims, such litigation, whether or not determined in favor of us could result in significant expense to us. We also have had, and may have in the future, issues relating to products we sold prior to the disposition of our operating business units, which we may be obligated to resolve. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of 9 Table of Contents any of our former customers’ claims for indemnification of product issues, such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense to us. Our operations could be harmed by natural disasters or other disruptions. Our corporate headquarters located in the San Francisco Bay area are near major earthquake faults, and we are subject to the risk of damage or disruption in the event of seismic activity. Any future disruptions for any reason, including work stoppages, an outbreak of epidemic, fire, earthquakes, or other natural disasters could cause damages that could have an adverse effect on our operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expense. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, we may be subject to fines and penalties, and our reputation may be harmed. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel who are critical to the success of our business. The changes in our business discussed in this document have caused us to reduce our staff to a level commensurate with our current business activity. If we were to lose key members of our small staff, we could be adversely affected. If we were to use our resources to acquire an operating business, our future success would depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and finance personnel for which competition is intense globally. Additionally, limited human resources and untimely turnovers in staff may result in difficulties in implementing our policies and procedures including those related to our internal controls. We are not insured against the loss of any of our key employees, nor can we assure the successful recruitment of new and replacement personnel. 