ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in, sell or retain shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Other sections of this report may discuss factors that could adversely affect our business. The retail industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, which may also harm our business or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially harmed. Risks Related to the Industry in Which the Company Operates Constantly Changing Fashion Trends and Consumer Demands. Our success depends in significant part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our products will correspond to the changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully market products that respond to such trends. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities as to others. In addition, misjudgments in merchandise selection could adversely affect our image with our customers resulting in lower sales and increased markdown allowances for customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Intense Fashion Industry Competition. The fashion footwear industry is highly competitive and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors include specialty companies as well as companies with diversified product lines. The recent market growth in the sales of fashion footwear and accessories has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and increased competition from established companies. Many of these competitors, including Nine West, Guess, Jessica Simpson, Ugg and Aldo, may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with other fashion footwear and accessories companies. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We believe effective advertising and marketing, favorable branding of the Steve Madden® and our other trademarks, fashionable styling, high quality and value are the most important competitive factors and we plan to continue to employ these elements as we develop new products and businesses. Our inability to effectively advertise and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 12 Cyclical Nature of Fashion Business. The overall fashion industry is cyclical, and purchasing tends to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low. Likewise, purchases of contemporary shoes and accessories tends to decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or even maintain our current level of revenues and earnings, or remain profitable in the future. Continuing recession in the international, national or regional economies and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, among other things, could affect consumer spending habits. The volatility and disruption of global economic and financial market conditions that began in 2008 has caused lingering declines in consumer confidence and spending in the United States and internationally. A further deterioration or a continued weakness of economic and financial market conditions for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Consolidation Among Retailers.In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. While such changes in the retail industry to date have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes. Economic Uncertainty and Political Risks. Our opportunities for long-term growth and profitability are accompanied by significant challenges and risks, particularly in the near term. Specifically, our business is dependent on consumer demand for our products. We believe that declining consumer confidence accompanied with the tightening of credit standards, higher energy and food prices and unemployment rates and a decrease in consumers’ disposable income has negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Despite the worsening retail environment, in 2011 we achieved substantial revenue growth in both our Wholesale and Retail segments but we cannot assume that this will be maintained. A continued weak economic environment could have a negative effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations during the year ending December 31, 2012 and thereafter. In addition, the European sovereign debt crisis and its implications for interconnected global financial systems, as well as the unstable political conditions in the Middle East and some other parts of the world, including potential or actual international conflicts, or the continuation or escalation of terrorism, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business Dependence on Key Personnel. The growth and success of our Company since its inception more than twenty years ago is attributable, to a significant degree, to the talents, skills and efforts of our founder and Creative and Design Chief, Steven Madden. An extended or permanent loss of the services of Mr. Madden could severely disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our senior executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and industry and have made significant contributions to our growth and success as well. Competition for key executives in the apparel, footwear and accessories industries is intense. While our employment agreements with Mr. Madden and most of our senior executives include a non-compete provision in the event of the termination of employment, the non-compete periods are of limited duration. While we believe we have depth within our senior management team, if we lose the services of our Creative and Design Chief or any of our senior executives, and especially if any of these individuals joins a competitor or forms a competing company, our business and financial performance could be seriously harmed. A loss of the skills, industry knowledge, contacts and expertise of our Creative and Design Chief or any of our senior executives could cause a setback to our operating plan and strategy. Dependence Upon Significant Customers. Our customers consist principally of major department stores, mid-tier department stores, better specialty stores and independently owned boutiques. Certain of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale business. We generally enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season and do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Therefore, a decision by a significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change its manner of doing business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 13 Risks Associated with Extending Credit to Customers.We sell our products primarily to retail stores across the United States and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without collateral. Various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties as a result of the financial crisis that began in 2008, which has increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers. However, our losses due to bad debts have been limited. Pursuant to the terms of our collection agency agreement, our factor, Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc., currently assumes the credit risk related to approximately 43% of our trade accounts receivable. In addition, we have letters of credit for approximately 20% of our trade accounts receivable. Still, if any of our customers experiences a shortage of liquidity, the risk that the customer’s outstanding payables to us would not be paid could cause us to curtail business with the customer or require us to assume more credit risk relating to the customer’s account payable. Risks Associated with Expansion of Retail Business. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on whether we are successful in further developing and marketing the Steve Madden, Stevies, Steven, Madden Girl, Steve Madden Men’s, Big Buddha, Elizabeth and James, Olsenboye, l.e.i., Betsey Johnson and Betseyville brands, and creating new brands, product categories and businesses that are appealing to our customers. The operation of company-owned Steve Madden and Steven stores is a significant part of our growth strategy. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we opened nine new stores, acquired one store in connection with the acquisition of Topline and closed ten under-performing stores. We have plans to open five to seven and close three to five underperforming stores in the next fiscal year. Our future expansion plan includes the opening of stores in new geographic markets as well as strengthening existing markets. New markets have in the past presented, and will continue to present, competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those faced by us in our existing markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to open new stores, and if opened, that such new stores will be able to achieve sales and profitability levels consistent with management’s expectations. Our retail expansion is dependent on the performance of our wholesale and retail operations, generally as well as on a number of other factors, including our ability to: · locate and obtain favorable store sites; · negotiate favorable lease terms; · hire, train and retain competent store personnel; · anticipate the preferences of our retail customers in new geographic areas; · successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. Past comparable store sales results may not be indicative of future results and there can be no assurance that our comparable store sales results will increase or even be maintained in the future. Management of Growth. The size of our business continues to grow organically and as a result of business acquisitions. In order to gain from our acquisitions, we must be effective in integrating the businesses acquired into our overall operations. Further, the expansion of our operations has increased and will continue to increase the demand on our managerial, operational and administrative resources. In recent years, we have invested significant resources in, among other things, our management information systems and hiring and training of new personnel. However, in order to manage currently anticipated levels of future demand, we may be required to, among other things, expand our distribution facilities, establish relationships with new manufacturers to produce our product, and continue to expand and improve our financial, management and operating systems. We may experience difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations and may not achieve anticipated synergies from such integration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage future growth effectively and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Inventory Management. The trend-focused nature of the fashion industry and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that may be necessary to reduce high inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 14 Foreign Sourcing and Manufacturing. Virtually all of our products are purchased through arrangements with a number of foreign manufacturers, primarily from China, Mexico, Brazil, India, The Netherlands, The Philippines and Italy. Risks inherent in foreign operations including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions and changes in social, political and economic conditions, can result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located, the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuations of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, or restrictions on the transfer of funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. While we believe that we manage our exposure to the risk that any such economic or political condition will materially affect our ability to purchase products because we are aware of a variety of materials and alternative sources that are available, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify such alternative materials and/or sources without delay or without greater cost to us. Our inability to identify and secure alternative sources of supply in this situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Impact of Custom Duties and Other Import Regulations. Our products, virtually all of which are imported, are also subject to United States custom duties. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on imports or exports, may adversely adjust prevailing quotas, duties or tariff levels, or impose sanctions in the form of additional duties to remedy perceived illegal actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Manufacturers’ Inability to Manufacture Our Goods in a Timely Manner or Meet Quality Standards. As is common in the footwear and accessories industries, we contract for the manufacture of virtually all of our products to our specifications through foreign manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which, in turn, could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, a reduction in purchase prices and, ultimately, termination of a customer relationship, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Difficulty in Locating Replacement Manufacturers. Although we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time frame for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, we do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. As a consequence, any of these manufacturing relationships may be terminated, by either party, at any time. In addition, we may seek replacement manufacturers for various reasons, including a significant increase in the prices we are required to pay to our existing manufacturers of our goods. Although we believe that other facilities are available for the manufacture of our products, there can be no assurance that such facilities would be available to us on an immediate basis, if at all, or be able to meet our quality standards and delivery requirements, or that the costs charged to us by such manufacturers would not be significantly greater than those presently paid. Manufacturers’ Failure to Use Acceptable Labor Practices.and Comply with Local Laws and Other Standards. Our products are manufactured by numerous independent manufacturers outside of the United States. We also have license agreements that permit our licensees to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. We impose, and require that our licensees impose, on these manufacturers environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of their labor force. In addition, we require these manufacturers to comply with applicable standards for product safety. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or licensing partners or their labor, product safety and other business practices and, from time to time, our independent manufacturers may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their manufacturers to comply with such standards or applicable local law. The violation of such standards and laws by one of these independent manufacturers with whom we contract or by one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of a manufacturer’s or a licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could harm our reputation, result in a product recall or require us to curtail our relationship with and locate a replacement for such manufacturer, which, as noted in the immediately preceding risk factor, could be challenging, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 15 Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations. Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are affected by a variety of factors, including: · the timing of holidays; · weather conditions; · the timing of larger shipments of footwear; · market acceptance of our products; · the mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold; · the hiring and training of additional personnel; · inventory write downs for obsolescence, the cost of materials; · the cost of materials; · the product mix between wholesale, retail and licensing businesses; · the incurrence of other operating costs and · factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. In addition, we expect that our sales and operating results may be significantly impacted by the opening of new retail stores and the introduction of new products. Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. Inadequate Trademark Protections. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are of major significance to our success and our competitive position and consider some of our trademarks, such as Steve MaddenÒ, to be integral to our business and among our most valuable assets. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products on the basis that our products violate the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Moreover, no assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to establish and then protect such proprietary rights from unlawful and improper utilization could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings. We are involved in various claims, litigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings and governmental investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and such other proceedings and investigations, we cannot predict with accuracy the ultimate outcome of any such matters. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain to address such matters may be inadequate to cover these or other claims. In addition, any significant litigation, investigation or proceeding, regardless of its merits, could divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” below for additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved. Exposure to Foreign Currency Fluctuations. We make approximately 99% of our purchases in U.S. dollars. However, we source substantially all of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 16 Disruption of Information Technology Systems and Websites. We rely heavily on information technology systems to manage and operate all aspects of our business, including product design and testing, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, invoicing and accounts receivable management, quick response replenishment, point of sale support and financial management reporting functions. In addition, we maintain an Internet website in the United States where retail customers can order our products. We depend on our in-house information technology employees and outside vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade these systems and our websites to support the growth of our business. It is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our information technology systems and websites and that these systems and our websites operative effectively. Despite our preventative efforts, our information technology systems and websites are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages, any of which could adversely impact our business and require significant expenditures by us to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. Information Technology Systems and Website Disruption. We are heavily dependent upon our information technology systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business including merchandise management, inventory management, sales tracking and supply chain monitoring and management. In addition, we have e-commerce and other Internet websites. Given the nature of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is essential that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite vigilance in this regard, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from events such as difficulties in replacing or integrating new systems, computer viruses, security breaches and power outages. Cybersecurity attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated and run the gamut from malicious software to electronic security breaches to corruption of data and beyond. We are continually evaluating, improving and upgrading our systems in an effort to address concerns but any such problems or interruptions may result in loss of valuable business data, our customers’ or employees’ personal information or disruption of our operations and other adverse impact to our business. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data and an inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks and penalties. Breach of Customer Privacy. A routine part of our business includes the gathering, processing and retention of sensitive and confidential information pertaining to our customers. While we believe that adequate security measures have been established and are maintained by us to protect against privacy breaches, the Company’s facilities and information technology systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming, human error, or other similar events. Such a breach that results in misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of a customer’s confidential information, whether by the Company or a third party service provider, could severely damage our reputation and relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business, as well as expose the Company to risks of litigation and liability. Declines in Our Stock Price Due to Inaccurate Predictions. The trading price of our common stock periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our future performance. As one of our primary objectives, we strive to maximize the long-term strength, growth and profitability of our Company, rather than to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term goal is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, but recognize that it may be helpful to our stockholders and potential investors for us to provide guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. While we endeavor to provide meaningful and considered guidance at the time it is provided and generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, actual results may differ from our predictions as the guidance is based on assumptions and expectations that may or may not come to pass and, as such, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions in making investment decisions with respect to our common stock do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our common stock. 17 In addition, at any given time outside securities analysts may follow our financial results and issue reports that discuss our historical financial results and the analysts’ predictions of our future performance, which our stockholders and potential investors may choose to rely on in making investment decisions. These analysts’ predictions are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our own forecasts. Our stock price could decline if our results are below the estimates or expectations of these outside analysts. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 