Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. We are subject to certain contingent liabilities that may limit our available cash resources. Although we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our needs for at least the current fiscal year, we are subject to contingent liabilities which may affect our liquidity or limit our available cash resources. We have been named as one of many defendants in a class action suit alleging that we, in concert with the other defendants, conspired to fix prices for the sale of SRAM products. Although we have subsequently sold this business and we currently do not believe these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the company, we may incur significant legal costs and may not be able to be excused from this proceeding, which could limit our liquidity. In addition, we cannot provide assurances regarding the outcome of these lawsuits. We hold securities which have experienced significant fluctuations in value and liquidity. We have held investments in equity securities which have been subject to significant fluctuations in value and trading volume and are traded on US and foreign stock exchanges. At March 31, 2008 we held Tower Semiconductor ordinary shares, all of which have been sold at the time of this filing. These shares have historically experienced fluctuations in market value, including periods of significant decrease in market value. For example, during the twelve months ended March 31, 2008 Tower share prices declined to as low as $0.74 and rose to as high as $1.94. Our investment in Tower was subject to inherent risks which could harm Tower’s business and financial condition, including those associated with certain Israeli regulatory requirements, political unrest, and financing difficulties. In addition, at March 31, 2008 we held asset-backed auction-rate securities issued by sub-trusts of two master trusts, Anchorage Finance Master Trust and Dutch Harbor Finance Master Trust (the “sub-trusts”). Auction-rate securities are intended to behave like short-term instruments because their interest rates are reset periodically through an auction process generally scheduled every 28 days. Investments in these securities can be sold for cash at par value on the auction date if the auction is successful. Ambac Assurance has the right to compel the liquidation of the portfolio of assets held by the sub-trusts and compel the sub-trusts to purchase Ambac Assurance preferred stock with a liquidation preference equal to the portfolio’s liquidated value. (the “Put Right”). In August 2007, auctions began to fail due to insufficient buyers, as the amount of securities submitted for sale in auctions exceeded the aggregate amount of the bids. All of our auction-rate securities portfolio has been subject to failed auctions. To date we have collected all interest due on our auction-rate securities, and expect to continue to do so in the future. The investment principal associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until successful auctions occur, a buyer is found outside the auction process, or the issuers establish a different form of financing to replace these securities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance as to when liquidity in the regularly scheduled auctions will be restored. Interest payments have been timely made to date, and the underlying assets are not in default or otherwise impaired, with the result that the face value of these investments to date has not declined. See “Investment Risk” under Item 7A of Part II. for more information. 3 Table of Contents Our financial condition is likely to fluctuate and failure to meet financial expectations for any period may cause our stock price to decline. As discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 31, 2007, we have sold each of our operating business units and have exited the semiconductor business that had previously characterized our company. Also, we have completed the sale of our Alliance Venture Investments portfolio and our interest in Solar Venture Partners. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on these comparisons as indications of future performance. Other factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to performance, are • changes in economic and capital market conditions; and; • changes in business regulatory conditions Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expense. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested, and we intend to continue to invest, resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. For example, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring us as a public company to include a report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2008. In addition, our independent registered public accountants must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, a requirement that we expect based on currently proposed rules may apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010. How companies implement these requirements, including internal control revisions, if any, to comply with Section 404’s requirements, and how independent public accountants will apply these new requirements and test companies’ internal controls, are continually evolving. Although we are diligently and vigorously reviewing our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with Section 404 requirements, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of the testing of our internal controls and any remediation efforts that may be needed. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel who are critical to the success of our business. The changes in our business have caused us to reduce our staff to a level commensurate with our current business activity. If we were to lose key members of our small staff, we could be adversely affected. Additionally, limited human resources and untimely turnovers in staff may result in difficulties in implementing our policies and procedures including those related to our internal controls. We are not insured against the loss of any of our key employees, nor can we assure the successful recruitment of replacement personnel. 