Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Risks Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe are material. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. We have a history of net losses, expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $51.8 million. Net losses may continue for the next several years as we proceed with the development and commercialization of our technologies. The presence and size of these potential net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, or decline in revenues and on the level of expenses. Research and development expenditures and sales, general and administrative costs have exceeded revenues to date, and we expect these expenses to increase in the future. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and even if we are successful in achieving profitability, there is no assurance we will be able to sustain profitability. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our new products, we will not be able to increase our revenues or become profitable. We set out to develop new DNA sequencing technologies and we are now using those technologies to develop new genetic analysis instruments, consumables and services. If our strategy does not result in the development of products, including our 1G Genome Analyzer, that we can commercialize in a timely manner, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to sell our instruments and consumables on terms that will generate profits or positive cash flow. Although we have developed DNA sequencing machines that we currently use in providing gene expression services to customers, these are based on the MPSS technology developed by Lynx rather than the new technologies currently under development. We cannot be certain that we will successfully develop any new products, including our 1G Genome Analyzer, in a timely manner, or that the new products will receive commercial acceptance, in which case we may not be able to increase or maintain our revenues or become profitable. We have articulated aggressive business and technical objectives for 2006, including our intention to recognize revenue on sales of our 1G Genome Analyzer beginning in the second quarter of 2006; to launch a number of applications to be run on the Solexa Genome Analysis System in 2006; and to sequence the genome of a human in 2006. We will need to overcome significant challenges to achieve these milestones in the designated timeframes, including continuing to improve the technical performance of our system; obtaining customer acceptance of our products; and producing and implementing a fleet of 1G Genome Analyzers at 6 Table of Contents both our U.K. and California sites. Failure to accomplish these objectives, or to accomplish them within the articulated timeframes, could cause our stock price to decline or to be come more volatile. Our technology platform is at the development stage and is unproven for market acceptance. While our MPSS technology has been commercialized and is currently in use for certain kinds of genetic analysis, including gene expression and small RNA analysis, we are developing our SBS reversible terminator chemistry and our Clonal Single Molecule Array technology to perform similar genetic analyses as well as sequence the DNA of genomes and of individual genes and genomic regions. These technologies are still in development, and we may not be able to successfully complete development of these technologies or commercialize them. Our success depends on many factors, including: • technical and economic performance of our technologies in relation to competing technologies; • the acceptance of our technology in the marketplace; • our ability to establish an instrument manufacturing capability, or obtain instruments from another manufacturer; and • our ability to manufacture reagents and other consumables, or obtain licenses to resell reagents and other consumables. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage genetic analysis systems company. The application of our technologies is at too early a stage to determine whether they can be successfully implemented within our targeted timeframe, for our targeted applications or at our targeted technical and economic performance levels. Our technologies also depend on the successful integration of independent technologies, each of which has its own development risks. Furthermore, we anticipate that, if our technology is able to successfully reduce the cost of genetic analysis relative to existing providers, our technology may be able to displace current technology as well as to expand the market for genetic analysis to include new applications that are not practical with current technology. The current focus of many of our potential customers performing DNA sequencing is on candidate region, candidate gene and de novo sequencing, rather than on whole genome resequencing. Furthermore, although we believe our system is suitable for resequencing large and complex genomes, there is no single technique that can be used to resequence the entire genome of a human. Instead, scientists need to combine several techniques to address complex structures such as long repeat sequences. One example of such a technique is paired end reads. We anticipate developing over time additional techniques, such as paired end reads, for use with our system. Our inability to sequence 100% of a human genome may limit our market. Many of our potential customers must, in turn, demonstrate to governmental and other funding sources that our technology has been successfully developed before they can make substantial purchases of our products. There is no guarantee, even if our technology is able to successfully reduce the cost of genetic analysis relative to existing providers, that we will be able to induce customers with installed bases of conventional genetic analysis instruments to purchase our system or expand the market for genetic analysis to include new applications. Furthermore, if we are only able to successfully commercialize our genetic analysis systems as a replacement for existing technology, we may face a much smaller market than we currently anticipate. We have limited experience in sales and marketing and thus may be unable to further commercialize our genetic analysis instrument systems and services. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for our genetic analysis instrument systems and services. There are a limited number of research institutes and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agricultural companies that are potential customers for our products and services. To market and sell our products, we intend to develop a sales and marketing group with the appropriate technical expertise. We are currently conducting a search for an executive to run our field organization, including sales, field application support and field service. We may not successfully build such a field organization. In addition, we may seek to enlist a third party to assist with sales and distribution globally, in certain regions of the world or for certain applications. In addition, if we are successful in achieving market acceptance for our new genetic analysis instruments, we will need either to build internal capabilities to install and maintain instruments at customer sites, to assist customers with the experiments that they intend to conduct using our instruments and to train 7 Table of Contents customers on the use of our instruments, or to contract with one or more partners to do so on our behalf. There is no guarantee, if we do seek to enter into such arrangements, that we will be successful in attracting one or more desirable sales and distribution partners, or that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. If our sales, marketing, field application support and field service efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partner, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which could materially impact our business operations. We will need to develop manufacturing capacity by ourselves or with a partner. If we are successful in achieving market acceptance for our new genetic analysis instruments, we will need either to build internal manufacturing capacity for instruments, flow cells and reagents, or to contract with one or more manufacturing partners. We are currently using personnel from our research and development and genomics services groups and consultants to address manufacturing and outsourcing, and we are conducting a search for an executive to run these operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to build manufacturing capacity internally, or to find a manufacturing partner, to meet both the volume and quality requirements necessary to be successful in the market. Any delay in establishing or inability to expand our manufacturing capacity could hurt our business. We intend to implement a business model that is unproven and different from our former business model. Our current business model is based primarily on the planned sales of genetic analysis instruments and of reagents and other consumables and services to support customers in their use of that equipment. Alternative commercial arrangements may take the form of equipment leases, equipment placements and collaborations with customers at academic, government and commercial labs, among others. Our historical business model was based on providing genomics services using our MPSS technology and supplying customers with DNA sequences and other information that resulted from experiments. A change in emphasis from our former business model has caused some current and prospective customers of our genomics services business to delay, defer or cancel purchasing decisions with respect to new or existing agreements. There is no assurance that we will be successful in changing the emphasis of our business model from providing genomics services to selling instruments, consumables and support services to new or existing customers. We are planning to discontinue MPSS activities in 2006 and are in the process of renegotiating our current MPSS customer contracts in order to provide those customers with services based on our new SBS technology. We have entered into new or amended agreements with some of our existing customers providing for the transition from MPSS-based services to SBS-based services. There is no guarantee, however, that all of our customers will migrate to the new technology platform once it is commercialized or that our genomics services business will generate positive cash flow or become profitable. We may need to raise additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financings in order to satisfy our projected future capital needs. The amount of additional capital we may need to raise depends on many factors, including: • the progress and scope of research and development programs; • the progress of efforts to develop and commercialize new products and services; and • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available when and as needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in biotechnology companies or in the marketplace in general is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire or any time thereafter. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, our stockholders may experience greater than expected dilution, we may be unable to execute our business plan, and we may be required to cease or reduce 8 Table of Contents development or commercialization of our products, sell some or all of our technology or assets or merge with another entity. We currently depend on a small number of genomics services customers for substantially all our revenues. Our strategy for the commercialization of our technologies includes entering into customer agreements in which we provide genomics services to research institutes and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agricultural companies. At present, our genomics services business generates substantially all of our revenues. After we have developed the Solexa Genome Analysis System, it is our intention to deploy these systems over time to replace the instruments currently used in our genomics services business, which operate based on our MPSS technology. If we are successful in commercializing our genetic analysis instrument systems, we anticipate continuing to provide genomics services after the commercial launch in order to meet particular customer requirements and to support the marketing of our instruments by, for example, allowing potential systems customers to understand how our instrumentation performs on their samples of interest. We have entered into new or amended agreements with some of our existing customers providing for the transition from MPSS-based services to SBS-based services. There is no guarantee, however, that all of our customers will migrate to the new technology platform once it is commercialized or that our genomics services business will generate positive cash flow or become profitable. Prior to our business combination with Solexa Limited, Lynx derived substantially all of its revenues from customer agreements, collaborations and licenses related to our genomics services business. Since the business combination we have continued to derive substantially all of our revenues from customer agreements. A significant portion of our revenues comes from a small number of customers. Thus, unless and until we are able to commercialize our new genetic analysis instrument systems under development, we will be dependent on a small number of customers to continue our current genomics services business, and the loss of one or more of those customers could harm our results of operations. Capacity reduction in our genomics services business could increase our loss. Our genomics service business utilizes proprietary MPSS instruments and information systems. In addition, the MPSS process is lengthy and complex. These instruments, systems and work processes are subject to intermittent failures. Any production stoppages or yield reductions due to these factors or otherwise could reduce the number of samples we are able to process and the revenues we recognize, could delay our intended termination of MPSS activities in 2006 and could increase our loss. Our sales cycle for our genomics services business is lengthy, and we may spend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or may not be able to enter into agreements on the schedule we anticipate. Our ability to obtain customers for our technologies and products depends in significant part upon the perception that our technologies and products can help reduce the costs or accelerate the timing of drug discovery and development, diagnostics and genomics efforts. Our sales cycle for our genomics services business is typically lengthy, in many cases nine months or more, because we need to educate our potential customers and to sell the benefits of our services to a variety of constituencies within such entities. In addition, we may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each customer. We may expend substantial funds and management effort without any assurance that we will successfully sell our technologies and products. Actual and proposed consolidations of pharmaceutical companies have negatively affected, and may negatively affect, the timing and progress of our sales efforts. We operate in an intensely competitive industry with rapidly evolving technologies, and our competitors may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. In particular, the areas of genetic analysis platforms and genomics research are rapidly evolving fields. Competition among entities developing genetic analysis systems is intense. Many of our competitors have 9 Table of Contents substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, scientific and marketing resources than we do. In our genomics services business, we face, and will continue to face, competition primarily from biotechnology companies, such as Affymetrix, Inc., the Agencourt Biosciences business of Beckman Coulter, Inc., Celera Genomics Group, Gene Logic, Inc., academic and research institutions and government agencies, both in the United States and abroad. We are aware that certain entities are using a variety of gene expression analysis methodologies, including chip-based systems, to attempt to identify disease-related genes and to perform clinical diagnostic tests. In addition, a number of large companies offer DNA sequencing equipment or consumables including Applera Corporation, Beckman Coulter, Inc., the Amersham Biosciences business of General Electric and Roche Diagnostics in partnership with 454 Corporation. Furthermore, a number of other companies and academic groups are in the process of developing novel techniques for DNA sequencing. These companies include, among others, Agencourt Personal Genomics, Genizon, Genovoxx, Helicos Biosciences, LI-COR, Lucigen, Microchip Biotechnologies, Pacific Biosciences, Perlegen, Shimadzu Biotech and Visigen. A number of companies offer gene expression equipment including Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Applera Corporation, and Illumina, Inc. In order to successfully compete against existing and future technologies, we will need to demonstrate to potential customers that our technologies and capabilities are superior to those of our competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological development by others may make our technologies and future products obsolete. Any products that are developed based on our technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products than we are. Moreover, some of our competitors have, and others may, introduce novel genetic analysis platforms before we do which, if adopted by customers, could eliminate the market for our new genetic analysis systems. Furthermore, our competitors may obtain intellectual property rights that would limit the use of our technologies or the commercialization of diagnostic or therapeutic products using our technologies. As a result, our competitors’ products or technologies may render our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, competitors may combine operations by merger, acquisition, licensing, distribution arrangements, partnerships and other activities. Such combinations may give our competitors advantages they did not previously have and lead to even more intense competition. If management is unable to effectively manage the increasing size and complexity of our organization, our operating results will suffer. As of March 10, 2006, the 60 employees of Solexa Limited, our subsidiary, are based near Cambridge, United Kingdom and our 58 U.S. employees are based in Hayward, California. We plan to hire additional personnel at both sites. As a result we face challenges inherent in efficiently managing and coordinating the activities of our increasing number of employees located in different countries, including the need to implement appropriate systems, financial controls, policies, standards, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to successfully manage a growing and internationally diverse organization, could hurt our business, and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations which may harm our business. A significant portion of our research and development and other operations are located in the United Kingdom which subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including, but not limited to: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • imposition of additional taxes and penalties; and • the burden of complying with foreign laws. 10 Table of Contents Currently, the lease agreement for our facilities in Cambridge, United Kingdom and most of our employment arrangements with our employees and consultants in the United Kingdom provide for payment in British pounds. Increases in the value of the British pound relative to the Unites States dollar will increase our expenses related to our operations in the United Kingdom, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. To date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future, and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. We could lose key personnel, which could materially affect our business and require us to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment, sometimes without notice, at any time. John West, our Chief Executive Officer, in particular, is a key member of our management team. We are also highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and commercial staff. The loss of any of these persons’ services might adversely impact the achievement of our commercial objectives. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. There is currently a shortage of skilled executives and employees with technical expertise, and this shortage is likely to continue. As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense, and turnover rates are high. Competition for experienced scientists from numerous companies, academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to attract and retain new or current personnel. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary technologies, third parties may be able to use our technologies, which could prevent us from competing in the market. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of genetic analysis instrument, reagents and other consumables sales and services companies and other biotechnology companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending their proprietary rights in foreign jurisdictions. We have applied and will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies, processes and products, as and when we deem appropriate. However, third parties may challenge these applications, or these applications may fail to result in issued patents. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary information and processes, in part, with confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants. However, third parties may breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or our trade secrets may still otherwise become known by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies and products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering imaging, image analysis, fluid delivery, DNA arrays on solid surfaces, chemical and biological reagents for DNA sequencing, genes, gene 11 Table of Contents fragments, the analysis of gene sequences, gene expression, DNA amplification and the manufacture and use of DNA chips or microarrays, which are tiny glass or silicon wafers on which tens or hundreds of thousands of DNA molecules can be arrayed on the surface for subsequent analysis. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to rely on licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes these patents. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may need to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies and products and thus prevent us from achieving profitability. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. We currently utilize sole-source suppliers for certain components of our Solexa Genome Analysis System and in our MPSS service business. We anticipate purchasing, on a sole-source basis, certain components for our 1G Genome Analyzer and certain reagents used to operate and prepare samples to be run on the 1G Genome Analyzer. We are in the process of negotiating supply agreements for certain of these sole-source items. In addition, we currently purchase, on a sole-source basis, the flow cells and certain enzymes that are used in our MPSS services business. When we rely on sole vendors, we subject our business to several risks, including: • the inability to obtain an adequate supply due to manufacturing capacity constraints, a discontinuation of a product by a third-party manufacturer or other supply constraints; • the potential lack of leverage in contract negotiations with the sole vendor; • reduced control over quality and pricing of components; and • delays and long lead times in receiving materials from vendors. We believe that we would be able to purchase alternative instrument components and reagents from other providers should the need arise, although we would likely incur additional expense and delay. Such additional expense and delay could be material and could harm our business in the short term. Our facilities in Hayward, California are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities in Hayward, California are located near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to 12 Table of Contents operate our business at our facilities would be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our activities could cause significant delays in our research programs commercial activities and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. We believe that the market price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors. The market prices for securities of many publicly held, early-stage biotechnology companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile. For example, during the period from March 7, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the closing sales price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) fluctuated from a low of $4.79 to a high of $17.00 per share. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors and events may have a significant and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: • fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • release of reports by securities analysts; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • developments in our relationships with current or future customers; • sales of our common stock by large holders, and distributions and/or sales of shares held by stockholders affiliated with certain of our directors; and • general market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have determined that we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading of our stock. Under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective control over the application of GAAP related to the financial reporting process. This control deficiency resulted in numerous adjustments being required to bring our financial statements into compliance with GAAP. Additionally, this deficiency could result in material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management has determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. Because of this material weakness, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on those criteria. Should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. During the second quarter of 2005, we hired a controller, who will be departing Solexa effective April 30, 2006. We are required to recognize expense for stock based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, there is no assurance that the expense we are required to recognize accurately measures the value of our share-based payment awards, and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. On January 1, 2006, we will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Accounting for Share Based Payments,” or SFAS 123R, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation 13 Table of Contents expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results for the first quarter of 2006 and for future periods will contain a charge for stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. The application of SFAS 123R requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123R and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. We expect that our adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our financial statements and results of operations, and this will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our company’s officers, directors and their affiliated entities have substantial control over the company. As of March 10, 2006, our company’s executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 37% of the outstanding common stock of the company, including warrants and options exercisable within 60 days of March 10, 2006. These stockholders, if acting together, may be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other changes in corporate control. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us or to effect a change in our management, even though an acquisition or management change may be beneficial to our stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the holders of our common stock, to issue 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time to time in series and with preferences and rights as it may designate. These preferences and rights may be superior to those of the holders of our common stock. For example, the holders of preferred stock may be given a preference in payment upon our liquidation or for the payment or accumulation of dividends before any distributions are made to the holders of common stock. Any authorization or issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with financings, possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, to remove directors and to effect a change in management. The preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights senior to those of our common stock, and, as a result, an issuance of additional preferred stock could lower the market value of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We did not receive any written comments on our periodic or current reports from the SEC prior to June 30, 2005, that have not been resolved. 