ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in, sell or retain shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially harmed. 11 Fashion Industry Risks. Our success depends in significant part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our products will correspond to the changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully market products that respond to such trends. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, misjudgments in merchandise selection could adversely affect our image with our customers resulting in lower sales and increased markdown allowances for customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The industry in which we operate is cyclical, with purchases tending to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low. Purchases of contemporary shoes and accessories tend to decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or even maintain our current level of revenues and earnings, or remain profitable in the future. A recession in the national or regional economies or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, among other things, could affect consumer spending habits and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. While such changes in the retail industry to date have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes. Economic Uncertainty and Political Risks. Our opportunities for long-term growth and profitability are accompanied by significant challenges and risks, particularly in the near term. Specifically, our business is dependent on consumer demand for our products. We believe that declining consumer confidence accompanied with changes in credit availability, interest rates, energy prices, unemployment rates and consumers’ disposable income negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items during the year ended December 31, 2008. Despite the worsening retail environment, we achieved a revenue growth in both our Wholesale and Retail segments in 2008. A continued weak economic environment could have a negative effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations during the year ending December 31, 2009 and thereafter. In addition, current unstable political conditions, including the potential or actual conflicts in Iraq, North Korea or elsewhere, or the continuation or escalation of terrorism, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Inventory Management. The fashion-oriented nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 12 Dependence upon Customers and Risks Related to Extending Credit to Customers. Our customers consist principally of department stores and specialty stores, including shoe boutiques. Certain of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale business. We generally enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season and do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Therefore, a decision by a significant customer of ours, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change its manner of doing business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We sell our products primarily to retail stores across the United States and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without collateral. While various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties in the past few years which increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers, our losses due to bad debts have been limited. Pursuant to the terms of our factoring agreement, GMAC currently assumes the credit risk related to approximately 85% of our accounts receivable. However, financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with such customer or require us to assume more credit risk relating to such customer’s accounts receivable. Impact of Foreign Manufacturers. During the year ended December 31, 2008, virtually all of our products were purchased through arrangements with a number of foreign manufacturers, primarily from China, Mexico, Brazil, Italy, Spain and India. Risks inherent in foreign operations include work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, changes in social, political and economic conditions which could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located, the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuations of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, or restrictions on the transfer of funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We do not believe that any such economic or political condition will materially affect our ability to purchase products, since a variety of materials and alternative sources are available. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to identify such alternative sources without delay (if ever) or without greater cost to us. Our inability to identify and secure alternative sources of supply in this situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our imported products are also subject to United States custom duties. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Possible Adverse Impact of Unaffiliated Manufacturers’ Inability to Manufacture in a Timely Manner, Meet Quality Standards or to Use Acceptable Labor Practices. As is common in the footwear industry, we contract for the manufacture of virtually all of our products to our specifications through foreign manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and we are therefore dependent upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications by our international manufacturers. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 13 Although we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time frame for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, we do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. As a consequence, any of these manufacturing relationships may be terminated, by either party, at any time. Although we believe that other facilities are available for the manufacture of our products, there can be no assurance that such facilities would be available to us on an immediate basis, if at all, or that the costs charged to us by such manufacturers would not be greater than those presently paid. We do not control our licensing partners or independent manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer of ours or by one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Intense Industry Competition. The fashion footwear industry is highly competitive and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors include specialty companies as well as companies with diversified product lines. The recent market growth in the sales of fashion footwear has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and increased competition from established companies. Most of these competitors, including Nine West, Skechers, Kenneth Cole, Nike, Guess and Jessica Simpson may have significantly greater financial and other resources than us and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with other fashion footwear companies. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We believe effective advertising and marketing, branding of the Steve Madden name, fashionable styling, high quality and value are the most important competitive factors and we plan to continually employ these elements as we develop our products. Our inability to effectively advertise and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Expansion of Retail Business. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on further developing the Steve Madden, Stevies, Steven, Madden Girl, Steve Madden Mens, Steve Madden Fix, Candies, Fabulosity, Elizabeth and James and l.e.i. brands, creating new product categories and businesses and operating company-owned Steve Madden and Steven stores on a profitable basis. Due to the downturn in the economy, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we opened three (3) and closed seven (7) Steve Madden retail stores and have plans to open two (2) and close approximately ten (10) stores in the year ending December 31, 2009. Our future expansion plan includes the opening of stores in new geographic markets as well as strengthening existing markets. New markets have in the past presented, and will continue to present, competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those faced by us in our existing markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to open new stores, and if opened, that such new stores will be able to achieve sales and profitability levels consistent with management’s expectations. Our retail expansion is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to locate and obtain favorable store sites, the performance of our wholesale and retail operations, and our ability to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel. Past comparable store sales results may not be indicative of future results, and there can be no assurance that our comparable store sales results can be maintained or will increase in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that our strategies to increase other sources of revenue, which may include expansion of our licensing activities, will be successful or that our overall sales or profitability will increase or not be adversely affected as a result of the implementation of such retail strategies. 14 Management of Growth. Our operations have increased and will continue to increase demand on our managerial, operational and administrative resources. We have recently invested significant resources in, amongst other things, our management information systems and hiring and training new personnel. However, in order to manage currently anticipated levels of future demand, we may be required to, among other things, expand our distribution facilities, establish relationships with new manufacturers to produce our product, and continue to expand and improve our financial, management and operating systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage future growth effectively and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations. Our results may fluctuate quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of holidays, weather, the timing of larger shipments of footwear, market acceptance of our products, the mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold, the hiring and training of additional personnel, inventory write downs for obsolescence, the cost of materials, the product mix between wholesale, retail and licensing businesses, the incurrence of other operating costs and factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. In addition, we expect that our sales and operating results may be significantly impacted by the opening of new retail stores and the introduction of new products. Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. Trademark and Service Mark Protection. We believe that our trademarks and service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products on the basis that they violate the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Moreover, no assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to establish and then protect such proprietary rights from unlawful and improper utilization could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Foreign Currency Fluctuations. We make approximately 99% of our purchases in U.S. dollars. However, we source substantially all of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Outstanding Options. As of March 6, 2009, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 804,000 shares of our common stock. Holders of such options are likely to exercise them when, in all likelihood, the market price of our stock is significantly higher than the exercise price of the options. Further, while options are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital, if required. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 