Risk Factors" below. As previously disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 4, 2004, the Company's common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market effective with the open of business on October 5, 2004. The delisting followed a determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel that the Company was a "public shell" and should be delisted due to policy concerns raised under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules 4300 and 4300(a)(3). The Company's common stock is now quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol "CLRS.PK." At the Company's annual stockholders meeting on July 24, 2003, the stockholders approved an amendment (the "Amendment") to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to restrict certain acquisitions of Clarus' securities in order to help assure the preservation of our NOLs. Although the transfer restrictions imposed on our securities are intended to reduce the likelihood of an impermissible ownership change, no assurance can be given that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that would result in an impermissible ownership change. The Amendment generally restricts and requires prior approval of our Board of Directors of direct and indirect acquisitions of the Company's equity securities if such acquisition will affect the percentage of our capital stock that is treated as owned by a 5% stockholder. The restrictions will generally only affect persons trying to acquire a significant interest in our common stock. On February 7, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a Rights Agreement (the “Rights Agreement”) which provides for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of our common stock, payable to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 12, 2008. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, at a purchase price of $12.00. The Rights Agreement is designed to assist in limiting the number of 5% or more owners and thus reduce the risk of a possible “change of ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended. A significant penalty is imposed on any person or group that acquires 4.9% or more (but less than 50%) of our then-outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our Board of Directors. There is no guaranty that the objective of the Rights Agreement of preserving the NOLs will be achieved. There is a possibility that certain transactions may be completed by stockholders or prospective stockholders that could trigger an “ownership change.” The parties to the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 12, 2008 are Clarus and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as rights agent. PRIOR BUSINESS Prior to the sale of substantially all of our operating assets in December 2002, we developed, marketed and supported Internet-based business-to-business e-commerce software that automated the procurement, sourcing, and settlement of goods and services. Our software was designed to help organizations reduce the costs associated with the purchasing and payment settlement of goods and services, and help to maximize procurement economies of scale. - 2 - Table of Contents There were several milestones in the evolution of our business prior to the December 2002 sale: - On May 26, 1998, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock in which we sold 2.5 million shares of common stock at $10.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of approximately $22.0 million. - On October 18, 1999, we sold substantially all of the assets of our financial and human resources software ("ERP") business to Geac Computer Systems, Inc. and Geac Canada Limited. In this sale, we received approximately $13.9 million. - On March 10, 2000, we sold 2,243,000 shares of common stock in a secondary public offering at $115.00 per share resulting in net proceeds to us of approximately $244.4 million. EMPLOYEES All of our employees are based in the United States. As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of ten employees, all of which are located in our Stamford, Connecticut headquarters. Our employees devote as much of their time as is necessary to the affairs of the Company and also serve in various capacities with other public and private entities. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pursuant to General Instruction G(3), the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The executive officers of our Company as of March 3, 2008 are as follows: Warren B. Kanders, 50, has served as one of our directors since June 2002 and as Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors since December 2002. Since May 2007, Mr. Kanders has served as a director of Highlands Acquisition Corp., a publicly-held blank check company formed with a focus on acquiring a business in the healthcare industry. Since August 2007, Mr. Kanders has served as the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Kanders Acquisition Company, Inc., a blank check company formed with a focus on acquiring a business in no particular industry or geography. Mr. Kanders has served as the President of Kanders & Company since 1990. Prior to the completion of the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc., formerly a New York Stock Exchange-listed company and a manufacturer and supplier of military vehicles, armed vehicles and safety and survivability products and systems to the aerospace & defense, public safety, homeland security and commercial markets, by BAE Systems plc on July 31, 2007, he served as the Chairman of the Board of Armor Holdings, Inc. since January 1996 and as its Chief Executive Officer since April 2003. From April 2004 until October 2006, Mr. Kanders served as the Executive Chairman, and since October 2006, has served as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Stamford Industrial Group, Inc., a publicly-held company that, through its subsidiary, Concord Steel, is a leading independent manufacturer of steel counterweights. Since November 2004, Mr. Kanders has served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Langer, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed provider of orthotic and skin-care products. From October 1992 to May 1996, Mr. Kanders served as Founder and Vice Chairman of the Board of Benson Eyecare Corporation, a distributor of eye care products and services. Philip A. Baratelli, 40, has served as our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since February 2007. Since February 2007, Mr. Baratelli has also served as Chief Financial Officer for Kanders & Company, Inc., a private investment firm principally owned and controlled by Mr. Warren B. Kanders that makes investments in and provides consulting services to public and private entities. Since April 2007, Mr. Baratelli has served as the Chief Financial Officer for Highlands Acquisition Corp., a publicly-held blank check company formed with a focus on acquiring a business in the healthcare industry. Since August 2007, Mr. Baratelli has served as the Chief Financial Officer of Kanders Acquisition Company, Inc. a blank check company formed with a focus on acquiring a business in no particular industry or geography. From June 2001 to February 2007, Mr. Baratelli was the Corporate Controller and Treasurer of Armor Holdings, Inc., a manufacturer and supplier of military vehicles, armored vehicles and safety and survivability products and systems serving aerospace & defense, public safety, homeland security and commercial markets. From February 1998 to February 2001, Mr. Baratelli was employed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in various positions ranging from Associate to Senior Associate. From 1991 to 1997, Mr. Baratelli worked for Barnett Banks, Inc. in various finance and credit analysis positions. Mr. Baratelli received a Bachelor of Science in finance from Florida State University in 1989 and a Bachelor of Business Administration in accounting from the University of North Florida in 1995. Mr. Baratelli is a Certified Public Accountant. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.claruscorp.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, and the proxy statement for our annual meeting of stockholders as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to our equity securities under section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are also available on our Internet website. All of the foregoing materials are located at the ‘‘SEC Filings’’ tab. The information found on our website shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this report into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts. - 3 - Table of Contents We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries and affiliates, an Audit Committee Charter, Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters, a Compensation Committee Charter, a Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charter, and Corporate Governance Guidelines, all of which are available at our Internet website at the tab ‘‘Investor Relations.’’ We will provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of the foregoing materials. We intend to disclose future amendments to the provisions of the foregoing documents, policies and guidelines and waivers therefrom, if any, on our Internet website and/or through the filing of Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. In addition, you may request a copy of any such materials, without charge, by submitting a written request to: Clarus Corporation, c/o the Secretary, One Landmark Square, 22nd Floor, Stamford, Connecticut 06901. Information on our Internet website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO CLARUS CORPORATION WE CONTINUE TO INCUR OPERATING LOSSES. As a result of the sale of substantially all of our electronic commerce business, we will no longer generate revenue previously associated with the products and contracts comprising our electronic commerce business. We are not profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of $282.1 million from our inception through December 31, 2007. Our current ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on our ability to redeploy our assets and use our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to reposition our business whether it is through a merger or acquisition. Our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, (i) on our success in identifying and acquiring a new operating business, (ii) on our development of new products or services relating to our new operating business, and (iii) on our success in distributing and marketing our new products or services. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REDEPLOY OUR ASSETS SUCCESSFULLY. As part of our strategy to limit operating losses and enable Clarus to redeploy its assets and use its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to enhance stockholder value, we have sold our electronic commerce business, which represented substantially all of our revenue generating operations and related assets. We are pursuing a strategy of identifying suitable merger partners and acquisition candidates that will serve as a platform company. Although we are not targeting specific business industries for potential acquisitions, we plan to seek businesses with operations and free cash flow, experienced management teams, and operations in markets offering significant growth opportunities. In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business for a potential acquisition, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours including other blank check companies, private equity groups, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than us which will give them a competitive advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. We may not be able to successfully identify such a business, obtain financing for such acquisition, or successfully operate any business that we identify. We have been working without success since December 2002 to identify a suitable merger partner and consummate an acquisition. Failure to redeploy successfully will result in our inability to become profitable. - 4 - Table of Contents Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for that acquisition. We may be unable to select, manage or absorb or integrate any future acquisitions successfully. Any acquisition, even if effectively integrated, may not benefit our stockholders. Any acquisitions that we attempt or complete may involve a number of unique risks including: (i) executing successful due diligence; (ii) our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and (iii) our ability to integrate and absorb the acquired company successfully. We may be unable to address these problems successfully. Our failure to redeploy our assets could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR EFFORTS TO REDEPLOY OUR ASSETS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT OR THE DIVERSION OF OUR MANAGEMENT TO OUTSIDE INTERESTS. Our ability to successfully effect a redeployment of our assets and successfully run the Company following such a transaction is dependent upon the efforts of key management, including Warren B. Kanders, our Executive Chairman of the Board of the Directors. The loss of his services, or the inability of the Company to continue to retain his services on mutually satisfactory terms, could have a detrimental effect on the market price of our common stock and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our executive employees devote as much of their time as is necessary to the affairs of the Company and also serve in various capacities with other public and private entities, including blank check companies and not-for-profit entities affiliated with Kanders & Company. While management believes these non-exclusive arrangements benefit the Company by availing itself of certain of the resources of Kanders & Company, the other business interests of these individuals could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs. It is noted, however, that the obligations of our executive management team to present business opportunities to the other business entities they are affiliated with is first subject to any pre-existing fiduciary or other obligations our executive management team may owe to Clarus. WE WILL INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH OUR EVALUATION OF SUITABLE MERGER PARTNERS AND ACQUISITION CANDIDATES. As part of our plan to redeploy our assets, our management is seeking, analyzing and evaluating potential acquisition and merger candidates. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these redeployment efforts. We incurred approximately $1.4 million of transaction related expenses during 2006 for due diligence and negotiation of potential acquisitions. In 2004, we incurred $1.6 million of transaction related expenses during due diligence and negotiation of potential acquisitions. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity in the near term, or at all. SINCE WE HAVE NOT YET SELECTED A PARTICULAR INDUSTRY OR TARGET BUSINESS WITH WHICH TO REDEPLOY OUR ASSETS, YOU WILL BE UNABLE TO CURRENTLY ASCERTAIN THE MERITS OR RISKS OF THE INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS IN WHICH WE MAY ULTIMATELY OPERATE. Because we may consummate a merger or acquisition with a company in any industry and are not limited to any particular type of business there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. If we complete a merger or acquisition with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. WE WILL LIKELY HAVE NO OPERATING HISTORY IN OUR NEW LINE OF BUSINESS, WHICH IS YET TO BE DETERMINED, AND THEREFORE WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS INHERENT IN ESTABLISHING A NEW BUSINESS. We have not identified what our new line of business will be; therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business and it is possible that the target company may have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for Clarus. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. - 5 - Table of Contents OUR ABILITY TO BE SUCCESSFUL AFTER A REDEPLOYMENT OF OUR ASSETS MAY BE DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUED EFFORTS OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND KEY PERSONNEL WHO MAY JOIN US FOLLOWING A REDEPLOYMENT OF OUR ASSETS. The role of our management team and key personnel from the target business we acquire cannot presently be ascertained. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a redeployment of our assets, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. AS A RESULT OF AN ASSET REDEPLOYMENT WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO SUBSEQUENTLY TAKE WRITE-DOWNS OR WRITE-OFFS, RESTRUCTURING, AND IMPAIRMENT OR OTHER CHARGES THAT COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OUR STOCK PRICE, WHICH COULD CAUSE YOU TO LOSE SOME OR ALL OF YOUR INVESTMENT. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. THE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER RULES ADOPTED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RELATING TO SHELL COMPANIES MAY DELAY OR PREVENT US FROM MAKING CERTAIN ACQUISITIONS. As a result of the final rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2005, Clarus may be deemed to be a shell company. The rules are designed to ensure that investors in shell companies that acquire operations have timely access to the same kind of information as is available to investors in public companies generally. The rules prohibit the use by shell companies of a Form S-8 and revise the Form 8-K to require a shell company to include extensive registration-level information required to register a class of securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), in the filing on Form 8-K that the shell company files to report the acquisition of a business. The extensive registration-level information includes a detailed description of a company’s business and properties, management, executive compensation, related party transactions, legal proceedings and historical market price information, as well as audited historical financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations. The revised Form 8-K rules also require a shell company to file pro forma financial statements giving effect to the acquisition not later than four business days after completion of the acquisition, instead of 75 days as required by non-shell companies. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some acquisition prospects to prepare such detailed disclosures and obtain audited financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by Clarus, or deter potential targets from negotiating with Clarus. If Clarus were to be deemed a shell company, any increased difficulty in Clarus’ ability to identify and consummate an acquisition with an appropriate merger candidate can materially adversely affect Clarus’ ability to successfully implement its redeployment strategy. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS OF OUR NET OPERATING LOSS ("NOL") AND TAX CREDIT CARRYFORWARDS. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL and other carryforwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOL will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable merger partners and/or acquisition candidates, and once identified, successfully consummate a merger with and/or acquisition of these candidates. - 6 - Table of Contents Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOL carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent stockholders" within the meaning of the NOL carryforward limitations whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent stockholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date is more than 50 percentage points. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent stockholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated together as a public group. The amount of NOL and tax credit carryforwards that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. CERTAIN PROTECTIVE MEASURES IMPLEMENTED BY US TO PRESERVE OUR NOL MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE OR MAY HAVE SOME UNINTENDED NEGATIVE EFFECTS. On July 24, 2003, at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment (the "Amendment") to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to restrict certain acquisitions of our securities in order to help assure the preservation of our NOL. The Amendment generally restricts direct and indirect acquisitions of our equity securities if such acquisition will affect the percentage of Clarus' capital stock that is treated as owned by a "5% stockholder." Additionally, on February 7, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a Rights Agreement which is designed to assist in limiting the number of 5% or more owners and thus reduce the risk of a possible “change of ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended. Although the transfer restrictions imposed on our capital stock and the Rights Agreement are intended to reduce the likelihood of an impermissible ownership change, there is no guarantee that such protective measures would prevent all transfers that would result in an impermissible ownership change. These protective measures also will require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in us to seek the approval of our Board of Directors. This may have an "anti-takeover" effect because our Board of Directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of capital stock that a stockholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management. Additionally, because protective measures implemented by us to preserve our NOL will have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to acquire our common stock, the liquidity and market value of our common stock might suffer. IF WE EFFECT AN ACQUISITION OR MERGER WITH A COMPANY LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, WE WOULD BE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. We may effect an acquisition or merger with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; - 7 - Table of Contents • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. IF WE EFFECT AN ACQUISITION OR MERGER WITH A COMPANY LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, THE LAWS APPLICABLE TO SUCH COMPANY WILL LIKELY GOVERN ALL OF OUR MATERIAL AGREEMENTS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENFORCE OUR LEGAL RIGHTS. If we effect an acquisition or merger with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. COMPLIANCE WITH THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 WILL REQUIRE SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT RESOURCES AND MAY INCREASE THE TIME AND COSTS OF COMPLETING AN ACQUISITION. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. An acquisition target may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO REGISTER AS AN INVESTMENT COMPANY UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, WHICH COULD SIGNIFICANTLY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND ACQUIRE AN ESTABLISHED BUSINESS. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act") requires registration, as an investment company, for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. We have sought to qualify for an exclusion from registration including the exclusion available to a company that does not own "investment securities" with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash items. This exclusion, however, could be disadvantageous to us and/or our stockholders. If we were unable to rely on an exclusion under the Investment Company Act and were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be forced to comply with substantive requirements of the Investment Company Act, including: (i) limitations on our ability to borrow; (ii) limitations on our capital structure; (iii) restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; (iv) prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; (v) restrictions on specific investments; (vi) limitations on our ability to issue stock options; and (vii) compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company would subject us to restrictions that would significantly impair our ability to pursue our fundamental business strategy of acquiring and operating an established business. In the event the Securities and Exchange Commission or a court took the position that we were an investment company, our failure to register as an investment company would not only raise the possibility of an enforcement action by the Securities and Exchange Commission or an adverse judgment by a court, but also could threaten the validity of corporate actions and contracts entered into by us during the period we were deemed to be an unregistered investment company. Moreover, the Securities and Exchange Commission could seek an enforcement action against us to the extent we were not in compliance with the Investment Company Act during any point in time. - 8 - Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUR COMMON STOCK IS NO LONGER LISTED ON THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET. On October 5, 2004, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. The delisting followed a determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel that the Company was a "public shell" and should be delisted due to policy concerns raised under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules 4300 and 4300(a)(3). Additional information concerning the delisting is set forth in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 4, 2004. The Company's common stock is now quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol "CLRS.PK." As a result of the delisting, stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our common stock, the liquidity of our stock may be reduced, making it difficult for a stockholder to buy or sell our stock at competitive market prices or at all, we may lose support from institutional investors and/or market makers that currently buy and sell our stock and the price of our common stock could decline. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO VOLATILE MARKET CONDITIONS. The market prices of our common stock have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Please see the table contained in Item 5 of this Report which sets forth the range of high and low closing prices of our common stock for the calendar quarters indicated. WE DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. OUR AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AUTHORIZES THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES OF PREFERRED STOCK. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors will be authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix or alter the designations, preferences, rights and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the shares of each series, including the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, including sinking fund provisions, redemption price or prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designations of any series. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of Clarus without further action by our stockholders. Such shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights. WE MAY ISSUE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD CAUSE DILUTION TO CURRENT INVESTORS AND OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None - 9 - Table of Contents ITEM 