ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference herein before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. Fashion Industry Risks. The success of the Company will depend in significant part upon its ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that the Company's products will correspond to the changes in taste and demand or that the Company will be able to successfully market products that respond to such trends. If the Company misjudges the market for its products, it may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, misjudgments in merchandise selection could adversely affect the Company's image with its customers resulting in lower sales and increased markdown allowances for customers which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 The industry in which the Company operates is cyclical, with purchases tending to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low. Purchases of contemporary shoes and accessories tend to decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times. While the Company has fared well in recent years in a difficult retail environment, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its historical rate of growth in revenues and earnings, or remain profitable in the future. A recession in the national or regional economies or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, among other things, could affect consumer-spending habits and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry the Company's products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. While such changes in the retail industry to date have not had a material adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition, there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes. Inventory Management. The fashion-oriented nature of the Company's products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave the Company vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, the Company's ability to manage its inventories properly is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. The inability of the Company to effectively manage its inventory would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence upon Customers and Risks Related to Extending Credit to Customers. The Company's customers consist principally of department stores and specialty stores, including shoe boutiques. Certain of the Company's department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of the Company's wholesale business. The Company generally enters into a number of purchase order commitments with its customers for each of its lines every season and does not enter into long-term agreements with any of its customers. Therefore, a decision by a significant customer of the Company, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from the Company or to change its manner of doing business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company sells its products primarily to retail stores across the United States and extends credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without collateral. While various retailers, including some of the Company's customers, have experienced financial difficulties in the past few years which increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers, the Company's losses due to bad debts have been limited. Pursuant to the Factoring Agreements between GMAC, Wells Fargo Century and the Company, the factors currently assume the credit risk related to approximately 89% of the Company's accounts receivables. However, financial difficulties of a customer could cause the Company to curtail business with such customer or require the Company to assume more credit risk relating to such customer's account receivable. Impact of Foreign Manufacturers. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 99% of the Company's products were purchased through arrangements with a number of foreign manufacturers, primarily from China, Brazil, Italy and Spain. 11 Risks inherent in foreign operations include work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, changes in social, political and economic conditions which could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which the Company's manufacturers or suppliers are located, the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuations of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, or restrictions on the transfer of funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not believe that any such economic or political condition will materially affect the Company's ability to purchase products, since a variety of materials and alternative sources are available. The Company cannot be certain, however, that it will be able to identify such alternative sources without delay (if ever) or without greater cost to the Company. The Company's inability to identify and secure alternative sources of supply in this situation would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's imported products are also subject to United States custom duties. The United States and the countries in which the Company's products are produced or sold, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Possible Adverse Impact of Unaffiliated Manufacturers' Inability to Manufacture in a Timely Manner, Meet Quality Standards or to Use Acceptable Labor Practices. As is common in the footwear industry, the Company contracts for the manufacture of 99% of its products to its specifications through foreign manufacturers. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and is therefore dependent upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of its products. The Company's products are manufactured to its specifications by both domestic and international manufacturers. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of the Company's products in a timely manner or to meet the Company's quality standards could cause the Company to miss the delivery date requirements of its customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company enters into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time frame for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, the Company does not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. As a consequence, any of these manufacturing relationships may be terminated, by either party, at any time. Although the Company believes that other facilities are available for the manufacture of the Company's products, both within and outside of the United States, there can be no assurance that such facilities would be available to the Company on an immediate basis, if at all, or that the costs charged to the Company by such manufacturers would not be greater than those presently paid. The Company does not control its licensing partners or independent manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer of the Company or by one of the Company's licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Intense Industry Competition. The fashion footwear industry is highly competitive and barriers to entry are low. The Company's competitors include specialty companies as well as companies with diversified product lines. The recent market growth in the sales of fashion footwear has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and increased competition from established companies. Most of these competitors, including Diesel, Kenneth Cole, Nine West, DKNY, Skechers, Nike and Guess, may have significantly greater financial and other 12 resources than the Company and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with other fashion footwear companies. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company believes effective advertising and marketing, branding of the Steve Madden name, fashionable styling, high quality and value are the most important competitive factors and plans to continually employ these elements as it develops its products. The Company's inability to effectively advertise and market its products could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Expansion of Retail Business. The Company's continued growth depends to a significant degree on further developing the Steve Madden(R), Stevies(R), Steven(R), SMNY/Madden Girl, Steve Madden Mens, Natural Comfort and Candie's(R) brands, creating new product categories and businesses and operating Company-owned Steve Madden(R) and Steven(R) stores on a profitable basis. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company opened four (4) Steve Madden(R) retail stores and has plans to open eight to ten (8 to 10) additional stores in the year ending December 31, 2007. The Company's expansion plan includes the opening of stores in new geographic markets as well as strengthening existing markets. New markets have in the past presented, and will continue to present, competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those faced by the Company in its existing markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to open new stores, and if opened, that such new stores will be able to achieve sales and profitability levels consistent with management's expectations. The Company's retail expansion is dependent on a number of factors, including the Company's ability to locate and obtain favorable store sites, the performance of the Company's wholesale and retail operations, and the ability of the Company to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel. Past comparable store sales results may not be indicative of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company's comparable store sales results can be maintained or will increase in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company's strategies to increase other sources of revenue, which may include expansion of its licensing activities, will be successful or that the Company's overall sales or profitability will increase or not be adversely affected as a result of the implementation of such retail strategies. Management of Growth. The Company's operations have increased and will continue to increase demand on the Company's managerial, operational and administrative resources. The Company has recently invested significant resources in, amongst other things, its management information systems and hiring and training new personnel. However, in order to manage currently anticipated levels of future demand, the Company may be required to, among other things, expand its distribution facilities, establish relationships with new manufacturers to produce its products, and continue to expand and improve its financial, management and operating systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage future growth effectively and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations. The Company's results may fluctuate quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of holidays, weather, the timing of larger shipments of footwear, market acceptance of the Company's products, the mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold, the hiring and training of additional personnel, inventory write downs for obsolescence, the cost of materials, the product mix between wholesale, retail and licensing businesses, the incurrence of other operating costs and factors beyond the Company's control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. In addition, the Company expects that its sales and operating results may be significantly impacted by the opening of new retail stores and the introduction of new products. Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. 13 Trademark and Service Mark Protection. The Company believes that its trademarks and service marks and other proprietary rights are important to its success and its competitive position. Accordingly, the Company devotes substantial resources to the establishment and protection of its trademarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by the Company to establish and protect its trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of the Company's products on the basis that they violate the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Moreover, no assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of the Company or that the Company will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The failure of the Company to establish and then protect such proprietary rights from unlawful and improper utilization could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign Currency Fluctuations. The Company makes approximately 98% of its purchases in U.S. dollars. However, the Company sources substantially all of its products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which the Company and foreign competitors sell their products in the same market. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Outstanding Options. As of March 5, 2007, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,396,000 shares of Common Stock. Holders of such options are likely to exercise them when, in all likelihood, the market price of the Company's stock is significantly higher than the exercise price of the options. Further, while options are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which the Company could obtain additional capital, if required. Economic and Political Risks. The present economic condition in the United States and concern about uncertainties could significantly reduce the disposable income available to the Company's customers for the purchase of the Company's products. In addition, current unstable political conditions, including the potential or actual conflicts in Iraq, North Korea or elsewhere, or the continuation or escalation of terrorism, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 