ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A continuation or further deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation of the recent turbulence in significant portions of the global financial markets, particularly if it worsens, could impact the Corporation’s performance, both directly by affecting our revenues and the value of our assets and liabilities, and indirectly by affecting our counterparties and the economy generally. Dramatic declines in the housing market in the past year have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The Corporation has recognized significantly higher loan loss provisions during 2008 as the level of nonperforming real estate loans increased throughout the period. Concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally have reduced the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, leading to a tightening of credit, reduction of business activity and increased market volatility. It is not clear at this time what impact the EESA or other liquidity and funding initiatives of the Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies that have been announced, or any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced could continue to affect the U.S. banking industry and the broader U.S. and global economies, which would have an effect on all financial institutions, including the Corporation. 12 Table of Contents Deterioration in the soundness of our counterparties could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could exacerbate the market-wide liquidity crisis and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Our mortgage company would be negatively affected by the inability of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to purchase loans. Although we sell loans to various intermediaries, the ability of these aggregators to purchase loans would be limited if these government-sponsored entities were to cease to exist. Our finance company would be negatively affected by diminishing demand for automobiles, which has already resulted in contraction within the automobile industry and prompted government intervention in an attempt to forestall the bankruptcy of three major automobile producers in the United States. There is no assurance that the failure of our counterparties would not materially adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest margin in diverse ways, including the pricing of loans and deposits, the levels of prepayments and asset quality. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates because many factors influencing interest rates are beyond our control. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to eliminate it. We believe that our current interest rate exposure is manageable and does not indicate any significant exposure to interest rate changes. However, the interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) since September 2007 immediately reduced our yield on variable-rate loans without a corresponding immediate reduction in deposit costs, which resulted in a decline in our net interest margin. Net interest margin compression may continue in 2009 as we may modify loan terms to accommodate existing borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty and the amount of nonperforming loans may increase as a result of the continuing economic crises in our markets. As fixed-rate deposits mature, we expect, but cannot guarantee, them to reprice at lower interest rates, which should reduce funding costs and relieve some pressure on the net interest margin. However, competition for deposits may hinder a decline in rates paid for deposits. Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets will adversely affect our income from our mortgage company. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from our mortgage company, which originates a variety of residential loan products for sale into the secondary market to investors. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales have resulted in fewer loan originations. We expect the ongoing effects of lower demand for home mortgage loans resulting from reduced demand in both the new and resale housing markets, the slowing national economy and the fallout from the subprime and alternative loan issues to result in lower origination volume at C&F Mortgage. While a decline in interest rates may spur refinance activity in 2009, the decline in housing market values, coupled with the availability of fewer mortgage loan products and tighter underwriting guidelines, will temper demand. 13 Table of Contents In addition, credit markets have experienced difficult conditions and volatility during 2008 and there have been significant increases in payment defaults by borrowers and mortgage loan foreclosures. These factors may result in potential repurchase or indemnification liability to our mortgage company on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market in the event of borrower misrepresentation or early-payment default. While we mitigate the risk of repurchase liability by underwriting to the purchasers’ guidelines, we cannot be assured that a prolonged period of payment defaults and foreclosures will not result in an increase in requests for repurchases or indemnifications, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deterioration in economic conditions, such as the deepening recession, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by general economic and market conditions; broad trends in industry and finance; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies; and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular a prolonged economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decline in demand for our products and services; and a deterioration in the value of collateral for loans made by our various business segments. Our level of credit risk is increasing due to the concentration of our loan portfolio in commercial loans and in consumer finance loans. At December 31, 2008, 42 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, which include loans secured by real estate for builder lines, acquisition and development and commercial development, as well as commercial loans secured by personal property. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity and residential loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. At December 31, 2008, 27 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer finance loans that provide automobile financing for customers in the non-prime market. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase in this portfolio. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which we may sell repossessed automobiles or delay the timing of these sales. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria and collection methods, we cannot guarantee that these criteria or methods will ultimately provide adequate protection against these risks. 14 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, the results of our operations may be adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, the opinions of our regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Competition from other financial institutions and financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Our competition in originating loans and attracting deposits comes principally from other banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. We also depend upon the experience of the officers of our subsidiaries and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The success of our business strategies depend on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in our primary markets. The successful implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. The market for qualified management personnel is competitive. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage the Bank’s branches effectively and in a timely manner would limit our growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the beneficial aspects fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 