ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A continuation or further deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation or further deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely impact the Corporation’s performance, both directly by affecting our revenues and the value of our assets and liabilities, and indirectly by affecting our counterparties and the economy generally. Dramatic declines in the housing market that began during the recession have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The Corporation has recognized significantly higher loan loss provisions and write-downs and other expenses associated with foreclosed properties during 2008, 2009 and 2010 as the level of nonperforming assets increased throughout the period. The economic recovery has been less than robust and the continued high levels of unemployment coupled with the continued downward pressure in the housing market has and may continue to have an adverse impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. Deterioration in the soundness of our counterparties could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could create another market-wide liquidity crisis similar to that experienced in late 2008 and early 2009 and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Our mortgage company would be negatively affected by the inability of the FHA, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to purchase loans or a material reduction in the volume of such purchases. Although we sell loans to various intermediaries, the ability of these aggregators to purchase loans would be limited if the FHA, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac cease to exist or materially limit their purchases of mortgage loans. There is no assurance that the failure of our counterparties would not materially adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. Compliance with laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, both new and existing, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and supervision from both federal and state agencies. During the past few years, there has been an increase in legislation related to and regulation of the financial services industry. We expect this increased level of oversight to continue. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, not stockholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, and capital levels. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest margin in diverse ways, including the pricing of loans and deposits, the levels of prepayments and asset quality. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates because many factors influencing interest rates are beyond our control. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to eliminate it. We believe that our current interest rate exposure is manageable and does not indicate any significant exposure to interest rate changes. However, the interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve Board since September 2007 immediately reduced our yield on variable-rate loans without a corresponding immediate reduction in deposit costs, which resulted in a decline in our net interest margin during 2008 and early 2009. Net interest margin partially recovered during 2009 and 2010 as we were able to reprice fixed-rate deposits at lower rates as well as implement policies that established floors on variable rate loans. There is no guarantee we will continue to be able to reprice deposits as competition for deposits from both local and national financial services institutions is intense. In addition, a significant portion of C&F Finance’s funding is indexed to short-term interest rates and reprices as short-term interest rates change. An upward movement in interest rates may result in an unfavorable pricing disparity between C&F Finance’s fixed rate loan portfolio and its adjustable-rate borrowings. Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets will adversely affect income from our mortgage company. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from C&F Mortgage, which originates a variety of residential loan products for sale into the secondary market to investors. Significant disruptions in the secondary market 12 Table of Contents for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The correction in residential real estate market prices may not have reached bottom. We expect the ongoing effects of lower demand for home mortgage loans resulting from reduced demand in both the new and resale housing markets as well as fluctuations in mortgage rates to keep pressure on loan origination volume at C&F Mortgage. At the same time as market conditions were negatively impacting loan origination volume, efforts by the Federal Reserve Board to keep interest rates low and government initiatives, such as the homebuyer tax credits which expired in the second quarter of 2010, have caused some increase in loan originations and refinancing activity. There is no guarantee that the efforts by the Federal Reserve Board will have a positive impact on loan originations. These factors may cause our revenue from our mortgage company to be volatile from quarter to quarter. In addition, credit markets have continued to experience difficult conditions and volatility. There have been significant increases in payment defaults by borrowers and mortgage loan foreclosures. These factors may result in potential repurchase or indemnification liability to C&F Mortgage on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market in the event of claims by investors of borrower misrepresentation, fraud, early-payment default, or underwriting error, as investors attempt to minimize their losses. While we entered into an agreement with our largest purchaser of loans that resolved all known and unknown indemnification obligations related to loans sold to this investor through 2010, and while we mitigate the risk of repurchase liability by underwriting to the purchasers’ guidelines, we cannot be assured that a prolonged period of payment defaults and foreclosures will not result in an increase in requests for repurchases or indemnifications, or that established reserves will be adequate, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deterioration in economic conditions, such as the recent recession, continuing high unemployment, and rate of further declines in real estate values, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by general economic and market conditions; broad trends in industry and finance; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies; and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular a prolonged economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decline in demand for our products and services; and a deterioration in the value of collateral for loans made by our various business segments. Our level of credit risk is increasing due to the concentration of our loan portfolio in commercial loans and in consumer finance loans. At December 31, 2010, 34 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, which include loans secured by real estate for builder lines, acquisition and development and commercial development, as well as commercial loans secured by personal property. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity and residential loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. At December 31, 2010, 35 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer finance loans that provide automobile financing for customers in the non-prime market. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses may increase in this portfolio. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which we may sell repossessed automobiles or delay the timing of these sales. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria and collection methods, we cannot guarantee that these criteria or methods will ultimately provide adequate protection against these risks. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, current economic conditions that may affect a borrower’s ability to repay and the value of collateral, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the 13 Table of Contents outcome of which are uncertain. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Competition from other financial institutions and financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Our competition in originating loans and attracting deposits comes principally from other banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase interest expense. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011 financial institutions may offer interest on demand deposits. The Corporation does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. If we offer interest on demand deposit accounts to attract new customers or retain existing customers, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to restrictions and obligations as a participant in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. In January 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program, we issued and sold to the Treasury Series A Preferred Stock and a Warrant for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $20.0 million. Participation in the Capital Purchase Program subjects us to specific restrictions under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program, including limits on our ability to pay dividends (quarterly dividends on our common stock are limited to $0.31 per share or less) and repurchase our capital stock, limitations on executive compensation, and increased oversight by the Treasury, regulators and Congress under the EESA. Many recipients under the Capital Purchase Program have repaid the Treasury and are no longer subject to the restrictions imposed under the Capital Purchase Program. Withdrawing from the Capital Purchase Program requires approval of banking regulators and we may not be able to obtain such approval, or a condition of obtaining such approval may require us to raise additional capital. Unanticipated consequences of participation in the Capital Purchase Program could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of our common stock. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. We also depend upon the experience of the officers of our subsidiaries and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business strategies depends on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in our primary markets. The successful implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. The market for qualified management personnel is competitive. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage our operations effectively and in a timely manner could limit our growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the beneficial aspects fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. 14 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent months. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The federal regulatory agencies, and particularly bank regulatory agencies, are given significant discretion in drafting the Dodd-Frank Act’s implementing rules and regulations and, consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on the final implementing rules and regulations. Accordingly, it remains too early to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new financial consumer protection agency that could impose new regulations on us and include its examiners in our routine regulatory examinations conducted by the FDIC, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we can offer to our customers. This agency, named the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Corporation. This agency’s broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service. Although the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the Bureau may also apply to the Corporation or its subsidiaries by virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve and FDIC. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Corporation with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined. However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may produce significant, material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which could limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate hedging transactions. Our deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect our future financial performance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Economic conditions since 2008 have increased the rate of bank failures and expectations for further bank failures, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF and prepare for future payments from the DIF. During 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on all institutions which it regulates, including the Bank. This special assessment was imposed due to the need to replenish the DIF, as a result of increased bank failures and expected future bank failures. In addition, the FDIC required regulated institutions to prepay their fourth quarter 2009, and full year 2010, 2011 and 2012 assessments in December 2009. Any similar, additional measures taken by the FDIC to maintain or replenish the DIF may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted final rules to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessment rules that will be effective April 1, 2011. Once these changes are effective, a depository institution’s deposit insurance assessment will be calculated based on the institution’s total assets less tangible equity, rather than the previous base of total deposits. The Corporation expects that these changes will not increase the Corporation’s FDIC insurance assessments for comparable asset and deposit levels. However, if the Bank’s asset size increases or the FDIC takes other actions to replenish the DIF, the Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums could increase. Changes in accounting standards and management’s selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the 15 Table of Contents Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, the Corporation may experience unexpected material consequences. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 