Item 1A. Risk Factors. The information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. See “Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements” for important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company. The Company’s actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties expressed below. Loss of FSA’s “Triple-A” ratings would impair its ability to originate new business. FSA’s ability to originate new insurance business is based upon the perceived financial strength of FSA’s insurance, which in turn is based in large part upon the financial strength ratings assigned to FSA by the major securities rating agencies. The rating agencies base their ratings upon a number of objective and subjective factors. Credit deterioration in FSA’s insured portfolio or changes to rating agency capital adequacy requirements could impair FSA’s ratings. For a discussion of other factors that might impair FSA’s ratings, see “Item 1. Business—Rating Agencies.” Most of the risk factors mentioned below would be expected to be considered by the rating agencies in assessing FSA’s financial strength. The Company’s loss reserves may prove inadequate. The Company’s insurance policies guarantee financial performance of obligations over specified periods of time, in some cases over 30 years, and are generally non-cancellable. The Company projects expected deterioration and ultimate loss amounts based on historical experience in order to estimate probable loss. If an individual policy risk has a probable loss as of the balance sheet date, the Company establishes a case reserve. For the remaining policy risks in the portfolio, the Company establishes a non-specific reserve to account for inherent credit losses. The establishment of these reserves is a systematic process that considers quantitative and statistical information together with qualitative factors, resulting in management’s best estimate of inherent losses associated with providing credit protection at a given date. However, the process is inherently uncertain, and the Company cannot assure that its reserves will prove adequate. If losses in its insured portfolio materially exceed the Company’s loss reserves, it could have a material adverse effect on the financial ratings, results of operations and financial condition of the Company. For additional discussion of the Company’s reserve methodologies, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses.” The Company is exposed to large risks. FSA seeks to manage exposure to large single risks and concentrations of risks that may be correlated through credit and legal underwriting, reinsurance and other risk mitigation measures. In addition, the securities rating agencies and insurance regulations establish limits applicable to FSA on the size of risks and concentrations of risks that it may insure. Given FSA’s capital base and the quality of risks that it insures, FSA may and has insured individual municipal and asset-backed risks well in excess of $1 billion. Should FSA’s risk assessments prove inaccurate and should the limits applicable to FSA prove inadequate, FSA could be exposed to larger than anticipated losses. While FSA has to date experienced catastrophic events (such as the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricane season) without material loss, unexpected catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect upon FSA’s insured portfolio and/or its Investment Portfolio. 39 Increased competition could reduce the Company’s new business originations. The Company’s insurance company subsidiaries face competition from uninsured executions in the capital markets, other Triple-A rated monoline financial guaranty insurers, banks and other credit providers, including government-sponsored entities in the mortgage-backed and multifamily sectors. During recent years, competitive forces have put considerable downward pressure on premium levels that FSA has been able to obtain, and has led FSA to decline to participate in many transactions. Competitive pressures may lead a bond insurer to sacrifice adequate pricing or adequate credit protection in order to maintain market share. See “Item 1. Business—Competition and Industry Concentration.” Decline in prevailing interest rates could reduce demand or premiums for financial guaranty insurance. Demand for financial guaranty insurance generally reflects prevailing interest-rate levels. When interest rates are lower, the spread between insured and uninsured obligations typically narrows and, as a result, financial guaranty insurance typically provides lower cost savings to issuers than it would during periods of relatively wider spreads. These lower cost savings may lead to a corresponding decrease in demand or premiums obtainable for financial guaranty insurance. Increase in prevailing interest rates would result in a decline in the market value of the Company’s Investment Portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s Investment Portfolio was approximately $4.5 billion dollars, almost entirely invested in bonds, primarily municipal bonds. The Company’s investment strategy is to invest in highly rated marketable instruments of intermediate average duration so as to generate stable investment earnings with minimal market value or credit risk. Nonetheless, any increase in prevailing interest rates would reduce the market value of securities in the Company’s Investment Portfolio, which would in turn reduce the Company’s capital adequacy. Marking to market the Company’s insured CDS portfolio may subject the Company’s reported earnings to extreme volatility. The Company is required to mark to market certain derivatives, including FSA-insured CDS considered derivatives, under United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). As a result of such treatment, and given the large principal balance of FSA’s insured CDS portfolio, small changes in the market pricing for insurance of CDS will generally result in recognition by the Company of material gains or losses, with material market price increases generally resulting in large reported losses under GAAP. In addition, any previously reported mark to market gains in respect of FSA’s insured portfolio would be expected to be reversed through the recognition of losses over the remaining terms of the insured risks. At December 31, 2005, the inception-to-date net gain on the Company’s insured CDS portfolio was $57.7 million. While management believes that reported mark to market gains or losses on insured CDS generally do not represent true economic gains or losses, certain constituents, including capital market participants, may rely upon reported GAAP results. As a result, the Company's access to capital markets might be impaired if its reporting earnings were considered unusually volatile. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Operating Earnings and Adjusted Book Value.” Change in industry accounting practices could impair the Company’s reported financial results and impede its ability to do business. The SEC staff and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) are evaluating various accounting standards applicable to financial guaranty insurers under GAAP, including accounting for claims liability recognition, premium recognition and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The Company and its industry peers will be required to implement any changes to GAAP reporting requirements adopted by the SEC or the FASB. Any such changes may have an adverse effect on the 40 Company’s reported financial results. In addition, accounting changes may impact reported profitability of new business originations or their impact upon reported earnings during the terms of outstanding risks (so-called “earnings volatility”) and, as such, may influence the types and/or volume of business that management may chose to pursue. Change in applicable law could impede the Company’s ability to do business. The Company’s businesses are subject to direct and indirect regulation under, among other things, state insurance laws, federal securities law, the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act, tax law and legal precedents affecting municipal and asset-backed obligations, as well as applicable law in the other countries in which the Company operates. Future legislative, regulatory or judicial changes in the U.S. or abroad could adversely affect the Company’s business by, among other things, placing limits on the Company’s ability to carry out its non-insurance business, lowering applicable single or aggregate risk limits, increasing the level of supervision or regulation to which its operations may be subject, or creating restrictions that make the Company’s products less attractive to potential buyers. For additional information regarding the regulations to which the Company is subject, see “Item 1. Business—Insurance Regulatory Matters” and “—U.S. Bank Holding Company Act.” Change in management personnel or share ownership may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s senior management plays an active role in its underwriting and business decisions. In addition, FSA and Dexia have worked together on numerous new business opportunities, and such close cooperation may diminish were Dexia no longer an owner of the Company. Accordingly, a change in management or share ownership may have an adverse effect upon the Company’s business. Rating agency action may impede growth in the Company’s FP business. Moody’s is in the process of evaluating the conduct of non-core business activities by financial guaranty insurers. The Company’s FP Segment represents a growing and profitable segment of the Company’s operations. Any action by Moody’s or another securities rating agency to impede such business would have an adverse effect upon the Company. Losses may result from the ineffectiveness of hedges or unanticipated timing of withdrawals of funds in the Company’s FP Segment. The Company hedges interest-rate risks in its FP Segment by investing in floating-rate instruments and issuing floating-rate liabilities, or by employing derivative products to obtain the same economic result. Judgments are made in this process regarding the expected timing of withdrawals of funds under GICs and other financial products. The Company may be exposed to unexpected losses if its hedging strategy proves ineffective or its judgments prove inaccurate. The Company’s ability to make debt service payments on its outstanding debt is subject to its insurance company operations. Because it is a holding company, the registrant does not conduct operations or generate material income. Instead, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and thus its long-term ability to service its debt, will largely depend on its receipt of dividends from, or payment on surplus notes by, FSA. FSA’s ability to declare and pay dividends to the Company depends, among other factors, upon FSA’s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, and compliance with rating agency requirements for maintaining its Triple-A ratings, and is also subject to restrictions contained in the applicable insurance laws and regulations. Based on FSA’s statutory statements for 2005, the maximum amount available for payment of dividends by FSA without regulatory approval over the 12 months following December 31, 2005 is approximately $153.8 million. 41 Downgrade or default of one or more of the Company’s reinsurers could reduce the Company’s capital adequacy and return on equity. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had reinsured approximately 26% of its principal amount of insurance outstanding. In evaluating the credits insured by the Company, securities rating agencies allow “credit” for reinsurance, based on the reinsurers’ ratings. In recent years, a number of the Company’s reinsurers were downgraded by one or more rating agencies, resulting in decreases in the credit allowed for reinsurance and in the financial benefits of using reinsurance under existing rating agency capital adequacy models. By itself, a downgrade of all reinsurers to Double-A would not impair the Company’s Triple-A ratings. However, it would reduce the “margin of safety” by which the Company would survive a theoretical catastrophic depression, and a more significant downgrade of the reinsurers could impair the Company’s Triple-A ratings. The Company could be required to raise additional capital to replace the lost reinsurance credit in order to meet capital adequacy requirements. The rating agencies’ reduction in credit for reinsurance could also ultimately reduce the Company’s return on equity to the extent that ceding commissions paid to the Company by the reinsurers were not increased to compensate for such reduction. For further information regarding the Company’s use of reinsurance, see “Item 1. Business—Reinsurance.” The Company’s international operations expose it to less predictable credit and legal risks. The Company pursues opportunities in international markets and currently operates in various countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. The underwriting of obligations of an issuer in a foreign country involves the same process as that for a domestic issuer, but additional risks must be addressed, such as the evaluation of foreign currency exchange rates, foreign business and legal issues, and the economic and political environment of the foreign country or countries in which an issuer does business. Changes in such factors could impede the Company’s ability to insure, or increase the risk of loss from insuring, obligations in the countries in which it currently does business and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities in other countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Item 1B is not applicable to the Company, because the Company is not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. For a discussion of SEC staff comments, see “Item 1. Business—Investments—Investments Insured by the Company.” 