Item 1A. Risk Factors. In this Annual Report, the Company has included statements that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends" and "plans" and future and conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would," "could" and "may" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. The Company cautions that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company. Important factors that could cause its results to differ, possible materially, from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed under "Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements" and the risks and uncertainties expressed below. The Acquisition of the Company by Assured may fail to close. In September 2008, Dexia announced the provision of capital support to Dexia by the governments of Belgium, France and Luxembourg, which was followed by changes in Dexia senior management. Following such developments, Dexia announced its intention to refocus on its basic business lines, and its decision to explore options to reduce its risk related to the Company. On November 14, 2008, Dexia announced that Dexia and Assured entered into the Purchase Agreement, under which Assured will acquire all of Dexia's shares of the Company, subject to the satisfaction of specified closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory and Assured shareholder approvals, confirmation from S&P, Moody's and Fitch that the Acquisition of the Company would not have a negative impact on the financial strength ratings of Assured's insurance company subsidiaries or the Company's insurance company subsidiaries, and segregation or separation of the FP business, such that the credit and liquidity risk of the FP business resides with Dexia. The Company cannot estimate whether or when such closing conditions will be satisfied, whether the Acquisition will be completed and, if completed, whether it will be structured as currently contemplated, or what the effects of such a change in control will be on the Company and its results of operations. If the Acquisition is not carried out, Dexia may explore other options with respect to the Company, including selling the Company or some of its operations to a third party or ceasing to write new business, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Following the Acquisition, the Company's management and processes may change materially and the Company may cease to file separately with the SEC. The Purchase Agreement provides a number of Post-Closing Parameters intended to maintain the creditworthiness of FSA for a period of time following Purchase Agreement closing. Following Purchase Agreement closing, the Company and FSA are expected to come under new management and be overseen by the Board of Directors of Assured. Subject to the constraints of the Purchase Agreement Post-Closing Parameters, Assured is expected to take actions to combine the operations of Assured and the Company and, in some cases, may combine legal entities or accomplish risk transfers through intercompany reinsurance arrangements. As a result of such actions, the Company and FSA are likely to increase credit and operational exposure to Assured. In addition, following Purchase Agreement closing, Assured may take action that would eliminate the separate SEC disclosure requirements applicable to the Company. Downgrade of FSA's financial strength ratings could impair its ability to originate new business. The Triple-A ratings of the Company's insurance company subsidiaries were placed on "review for downgrade" on July 21, 2008 by Moody's and on "negative credit watch" on October 8, 2008 by S&P, and on October 9, 2008 by Fitch. On November 21, 2008, Moody's downgraded the Company's insurance company subsidiaries to Aa3 (developing outlook). These recent ratings actions have had a 46 Table of Contents negative impact on the Company's market opportunities. FSA's ability to originate new insurance business and compete with other credit enhancers is based upon the perceived financial strength of FSA's insurance, which in turn is based in large part upon the financial strength ratings assigned to FSA by the major securities rating agencies. Credit ratings are an important component of a financial institutions' ability to compete in the financial guaranty market. The rating agencies base their ratings upon a number of objective and subjective factors. Credit deterioration in FSA's insured portfolio or changes to rating agency capital adequacy requirements could impair FSA's ratings. The recent ratings actions regarding FSA were based in part upon rating agency concerns regarding the prospects for new business originations by financial guarantors, as well as uncertainty about future support for FSA under Dexia's new ownership and management. For a discussion of other factors that might impair FSA's ratings, see "Item 1. Business—Rating Agencies." To maintain its current ratings, the Company may be required to take measures to preserve or raise capital, including through, among other things, increased use of reinsurance, capital contributions or the issuance of debt securities. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to take the measures necessary to maintain its ratings. Further downgrades of FSA's financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on its long-term prospects for future business opportunities as well as its results of operations and financial condition. The Company's FP business relies upon Dexia for material liquidity and credit support. As a result of recent capital market developments, the Company's FP business has faced unanticipated GIC withdrawals at a time when issuance of new GICs has been curtailed. The Company expects to fund a material portion of GIC withdrawals by employing liquidity provided by Dexia in order to avoid realizing market value losses from the sale of RMBS and other securities in the Company's FP Investment Portfolio. In addition, the Company's FP business is dependent upon Dexia for the provision of liquidity support in the event that collateral is required to be posted to avoid GIC terminations in the event of a ratings downgrade of FSA. Insofar as the Company is dependent on the significant liquidity and credit support that Dexia has committed to provide the Company's FP business, any decrease in the creditworthiness of Dexia or any action by Dexia to limit its support for the Company's FP business may be adverse to the Company. The Company's FP business may be required to repay GICs or post incremental collateral in the event of an FSA downgrade. If FSA were downgraded, the Company may be required to repay GICs or post collateral to its GIC counterparties, introducing additional liquidity risk. Most FSA-insured GICs allow for withdrawal of GIC funds in the event of a downgrade of FSA, typically below AA- by S&P or Aa3 by Moody's, unless the relevant GIC Subsidiary posts collateral or otherwise enhances its credit. Some FSA-insured GICs also allow for withdrawal of GIC funds in the event of a downgrade of FSA, typically below A3 by Moody's or A- by S&P, with no right of the GIC provider to avoid such withdrawal by posting collateral or otherwise enhancing its credit. The November 2008 downgrade to Aa3 by Moody's resulted in a trigger breach on $1.7 billion of unsecured GICs and $1.6 billion of secured GICs. In respect of unsecured GICs, the Company posted $1.0 billion of collateral, terminated $0.4 billion of GICs and modified the trigger to below Aa3 on $0.2 billion of GICs. The Company also posted $80 million of additional collateral to secured GICs. At December 31, 2008, a downgrade of FSA to below AA- by S&P or Aa3 by Moody's (A+ by S&P or A1 by Moody's) would result in withdrawal of $0.8 billion of GICs and the need to post collateral on GICs with a balance of $13.4 billion. Each GIC contract stipulates the types of securities eligible for posting and the collateralization percentage applicable to each security type. These collateralization percentages range from 100% of the GIC balance for cash collateral to, typically, 108% for asset-backed securities. Assuming an average margin of 105%, the market value of required collateral would be $14.1 billion. At December 31, 2008, a 47 Table of Contents downgrade of FSA to below A- by S&P or A3 by Moody's (i.e., BBB+ by S&P or Baa1 by Moody's) would result in mandatory or optional withdrawals of $5.1 billion of GICs and repayment or collateralization of the remainder of the $9.1 billion of GICs outstanding. A downgrade could result in a significant increase in collateral required to be posted to avoid GIC terminations. In such event, the Company would be required to raise cash to fund such withdrawals by accessing lines of credit provided by Dexia, selling assets, in some cases realizing substantial market loss, or borrowing against the value of such assets. In addition, assets posted as collateral are subject to changes in market value and ratings. Such changes may reduce the value of the collateral or disqualify the assets as collateral. As a result, additional collateral, to which the Company may or may not have access, may be required to be posted to meet collateral requirements. The Company's loss reserves may prove inadequate. The Company's insurance policies guarantee financial performance of obligations over specified periods of time, in some cases over 30 years, and are generally non-cancellable. The Company projects expected deterioration and ultimate loss amounts based on historical experience in order to estimate probable loss. If an individual policy risk has a probable and reasonably estimable loss as of the balance sheet date, the Company establishes a case reserve. For the remaining policy risks in the portfolio, the Company establishes a non-specific reserve to account for inherent credit losses. The establishment of these reserves is a systematic process that considers quantitative and statistical information together with qualitative factors, resulting in management's best estimate of inherent losses associated with providing credit protection at a given date. However, the process is inherently uncertain, and the Company cannot assure that its reserves will prove adequate. In the course of 2008, the Company adjusted reserves upward from quarter to quarter as the economic downturn worsened. There can be no assurance that such trend will not continue. If losses in its insured portfolio materially exceed the Company's loss reserves, it could have a material adverse effect on the financial ratings, results of operations and financial condition of the Company. For additional discussion of the Company's reserve methodologies, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Guaranty Segment—Results of Operations—Losses" and Note 2 and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Loss of management or other key personnel may have an adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company's senior management plays an active role in its underwriting and business decisions, as well as in performing its financial reporting and compliance obligations. The Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer have disputes regarding the terms of their employment agreements with the Company. The Company has deferred payment of a portion of 2008 bonuses and, in the case of senior management, made such bonuses contingent upon closing of the Acquisition. The Company has not otherwise established a retention plan for key personnel pending closing of the Acquisition, nor has a retention plan been otherwise established to retain key personnel should the Acquisition fail to close. Failure by the Company to retain management or key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. Resignation of independent directors may have an adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company's independent directors play an important role in the corporate governance of the Company. In accordance with applicable SEC and NYSE requirements, the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors is comprised exclusively of independent directors. Three of the four independent directors of the Company have disputes with Dexia regarding the valuation of Company shares acquired by them under the Company's Director Share Purchase Program. Resignation by one or more of the Company's independent directors may adversely impact the corporate governance of the Company, result in failure to comply with applicable SEC and NYSE Audit Committee requirements 48 Table of Contents and be viewed unfavorably by the rating agencies in evaluating the corporate governance of FSA and the Company, which is a factor in determining their ratings. Ceasing to provide financial guaranty insurance on asset-backed transactions could reduce the Company's new business originations. On August 6, 2008, the Company announced that FSA would cease providing financial guaranty insurance on asset-backed obligations and participate exclusively in the global public finance and infrastructure markets. The long-term effect of the change has not yet been realized. The Company believes that withdrawal from the asset-backed business will enhance its ratings stability, reduce its exposure to structured credit risk in its insured portfolio, and reduce its operating costs. At the same time, however, withdrawal from the asset-backed business may result in decreased business originations, revenues and net income relative to historical levels. A decline in new business originations or profitability may, in turn, be considered adverse factors by the rating agencies in assessing FSA's financial strength. Fair valuing the Company's insured CDS portfolio may subject the Company's reported earnings to extreme volatility. The Company is required to mark to market certain derivatives, including FSA-insured CDS that are considered derivatives under GAAP. As a result of such treatment, and given the large principal balance of FSA's insured CDS portfolio, small changes in the market pricing for insurance of CDS will generally result in recognition by the Company of material gains or losses, with material market price increases generally resulting in large reported losses under GAAP. Sharp swings in the estimated fair value of the CDS portfolio may occur from quarter to quarter due to the volatility of credit spreads that drive the fair-value estimates. Such changes in fair value can be caused by general market conditions and perceptions of credit risk, including FSA's own credit risk, causing the Company's GAAP earnings to be more volatile than would be suggested by the actual performance of FSA's business operations and insured CDS portfolio. While management believes that reported mark to market gains or losses on insured CDS are not necessarily indicative of realized losses, certain constituents, including capital market participants, may rely upon reported GAAP results. As a result, the Company's access to capital markets might be impaired if its reported earnings were considered unusually volatile. The Company may face claims in connection with early termination of Leveraged Lease Transactions in the event of failure of municipal lessees to pay stipulated loss amounts when due. At December 31, 2008, FSA had insured up to $2.8 billion of stipulated loss payments that may become due from investment grade municipal lessees upon early termination of Leveraged Lease Transactions. In the event of failure by the municipal lessees to make any stipulated loss payment when and if due, FSA would be obligated to pay such amounts, and would be entitled to reimbursement from the municipal lessees for any claims paid. AIG International Group, Inc. ("AIG") and Premier, among others, act as equity payment undertakers in a number of transactions in which FSA acts as strip coverage provider, with AIG acting as equity payment undertaker in the large majority of such transactions. AIG was downgraded in the third quarter of 2008 and FSA was downgraded by Moody's in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result, 53 Leveraged Lease Transactions in which FSA acted as strip coverage provider have breached either a ratings trigger related to AIG or a ratings trigger related to FSA. Under Leveraged Lease Transactions, if an early termination of the lease occurs and the lessee does not make the required early termination payment, FSA would be exposed to a possible liquidity claim on the 53 transactions with a current gross exposure of approximately $1.5 billion. If FSA is further downgraded to A+ or A1 and an early termination of the lease occurs and the lessee does not make the required early termination payment, FSA would be exposed to a possible liquidity claim on a 49 Table of Contents total of 77 transactions with a current gross exposure of approximately $2.6 billion. For a discussion of the Leveraged Lease Transactions, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—FSA's Liquidity—Leveraged Lease Transactions." The Company is exposed to large risks. The Company is exposed to the risk that issuers of debt that FSA has insured, issuers of debt that it holds in its investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. FSA seeks to manage exposure to large single risks, as well as concentrations of risks that may be correlated, through credit and legal underwriting, reinsurance and other risk mitigation measures. In addition, the securities rating agencies and insurance regulations establish limits applicable to FSA on the size of risks and concentrations of risks that it may insure. Given FSA's capital base and the quality of risks that it insures, FSA may insure and has insured individual public finance and asset-backed risks well in excess of $1 billion. Should FSA's risk assessments prove inaccurate and should the limits applicable to FSA prove inadequate, FSA could be exposed to larger than anticipated losses, and could be required by the rating agencies to hold additional capital against insured exposures whether or not downgraded by the rating agencies. While FSA has to date experienced catastrophic events (such as the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricane season) without material loss, unexpected catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect upon FSA's insured portfolio and/or its investment portfolios. General economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's business results and prospects. Recessions; increases in corporate, municipal and/or consumer bankruptcies; a continued downturn in the U.S. housing market; increases in mortgage delinquency rates; intervention by governments in financial markets, including the imposition of limits on the ability of mortgagees to foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans and/or to increase interest rates on mortgage loans in accordance with original contract terms; wars; and terrorist acts could adversely affect the performance of FSA's insured portfolio, by leading to increases in losses and loss reserves, and of the General, FP and VIE Investment Portfolios, by leading to decreases in the value of the portfolios and, therefore, the Company's financial strength. Any of the listed developments could lead to increased losses in the insured portfolio and corresponding increases in the Company's loss reserves. Changes in rating scales applied to municipal bonds may reduce demand for financial guaranty insurance. Fitch and Moody's have announced initiatives to establish "corporate equivalent ratings" for municipal issuers. Recently, they each announced that they are postponing their plans to shift to a global ratings scale, but may elect to do so in the future. Implementation of corporate equivalent ratings would be expected to result in ratings being raised for many municipal issuers which, in turn, might result in reduced demand for financial guaranty insurance. Rating instability of the monoline financial guaranty insurers may call into question the value/durability of a monoline guaranty. Monoline financial guaranty insurers have had their ratings downgraded by one or more securities rating agencies. The resulting market turmoil has called into question the durability of the monoline ratings and may lead to decreased demand for FSA's financial guarantees. In response to the market instability resulting from the recent rating actions surrounding the monoline financial guaranty insurers, 50 Table of Contents rating agencies and regulators may enhance the requirements for conducting, or restrict the types of business conducted by, monoline financial guaranty insurers. Further downgrades of one or more of the Company's reinsurers could reduce the Company's capital adequacy and return on equity. At December 31, 2008, the Company had reinsured approximately 23% of its principal amount of insurance outstanding. In evaluating the credits insured by the Company, securities rating agencies allow "credit" for reinsurance based on the reinsurers' ratings. In recent years, a number of the Company's reinsurers were downgraded by one or more rating agencies, resulting in decreases in the credit allowed for reinsurance and in the financial benefits of using reinsurance under existing rating agency capital adequacy models. Many of the Company's reinsurers have already been downgraded to Single-A or below by one or more rating agencies. The Company could be required to raise additional capital to replace the lost reinsurance credit in order to satisfy rating agency and regulatory capital adequacy and single risk requirements. The rating agencies' reduction in credit for reinsurance could also ultimately reduce the Company's return on equity to the extent that ceding commissions paid to the Company by the reinsurers were not adequately increased to compensate for the effect of any additional capital required. In addition, downgraded reinsurers may default in amounts due to the Company and such reinsurer obligations may not be adequately collateralized. Increased competition could reduce the Company's new business originations. The Company's insurance company subsidiaries face competition from uninsured executions in the capital markets, other monoline financial guaranty insurers, banks and other credit providers, including government-sponsored entities in the mortgage-backed and multi-family sectors. Increased competition, either in terms of price, alternative structures, or the emergence of new providers of credit enhancement, could have an adverse effect on the Company's insurance business. In recent years, FSA also faces competition from new entrants to the market, including BHAC, MIAC and NPFG. In addition, there are proposals for Congress to establish a federally chartered bond insurer, and for states and pension funds to establish bond insurers. Any such bond insurer may have a competitive advantage over FSA. Commencing with the fourth quarter of 2007, monoline financial guaranty insurers have had their ratings downgraded, placed on credit watch or placed on negative outlook by one or more rating agency. Ratings downgrades of major financial guaranty insurers and declining reliability of rating agency capital models impair investor confidence and reduce demand for financial guaranty insurance. Changes in prevailing interest rates and other market risks could result in a decline in the market value of the Company's General Investment Portfolio. At December 31, 2008, the Company's General Investment Portfolio had a fair value of approximately $5.9 billion dollars, almost entirely invested in bonds, primarily municipal bonds. The Company's investment strategy is to invest in highly rated marketable instruments of intermediate average duration so as to generate stable investment earnings with moderate market value or credit risk. Nonetheless, any increase in prevailing interest rates would reduce the market value of securities in the Company's General Investment Portfolio, which would in turn reduce the Company's capital as measured under GAAP. The market value of the General Investment Portfolio also may be adversely affected by general developments in the capital markets, including decreased market liquidity for investment assets, market perception of increased credit risk with respect to the types of securities held in the General Investment Portfolio, downgrades of credit ratings of issuers of investment assets and/or foreign exchange movements which impact investment assets. In addition, the Company invests in securities insured by other financial guarantors, the market value of which may be affected by the rating instability of the relevant financial guarantor. 51 Table of Contents Changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely affect demand for financial guaranty insurance and the Company's financial condition. Demand for financial guaranty insurance generally reflects prevailing credit spreads. When interest rates are lower or when the market is otherwise relatively less risk averse, the spread between insured and uninsured obligations typically narrows and, as a result, financial guaranty insurance typically provides lower cost savings to issuers than it would during periods of relatively wider spreads. These lower cost savings generally lead to a corresponding decrease in demand or premiums obtainable for financial guaranty insurance. Conversely, in a deteriorating credit environment, credit spreads widen and pricing for financial guaranty insurance may improve. However, if the weakening environment is sudden, pronounced or prolonged, the stresses on the insured portfolio may result in claims payments in excess of normal or historical expectations. In addition, increases in prevailing interest rate levels can lead to a decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, a decreased volume of insured transactions. Change in industry and other accounting practices could impair the Company's reported financial results and impede its ability to do business. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued a new GAAP accounting standard applicable to financial guaranty insurers that changes the accounting for claims liability recognition and premium revenue recognition. The Company and its industry peers will be required to implement changes to GAAP reporting requirements effective January 1, 2009. Such alterations, as well as any changes in the interpretation of current accounting guidance or the issuance of other new accounting standards, may have an adverse effect on the Company's reported financial results, including future revenues, and may influence the types and/or volume of business that management may choose to pursue. Changes in or inability to comply with applicable law could impede the Company's ability to do business. The Company's businesses are subject to direct and indirect regulation under, among other things, state insurance laws, federal securities law, the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act, tax law and legal precedents affecting public finance and asset-backed obligations, as well as applicable law in the other countries in which the Company operates. Recent adverse developments in the industry have led regulators to re-examine the regulatory framework for financial guaranty insurers. In September 2008, the New York Insurance Department issued a circular letter, effective January 1, 2009, that prescribed best practices for financial guaranty issuers that would significantly narrow the permitted scope of insurance of asset-backed securities, a business no longer pursued by the Company. Future legislative, regulatory or judicial changes in the U.S. or abroad could adversely affect the Company's business by, among other things, limiting the types of risks FSA may insure, placing limits on the Company's ability to carry out its non-insurance business, lowering applicable single or aggregate risk limits, increasing the level of supervision or regulation to which its operations may be subject or creating restrictions that make the Company's products less attractive to potential buyers or lead to a need for increased reserves. In addition, if FSA fails to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations it could be exposed to fines, the loss of insurance licenses, limitations on the right to originate new business and restrictions on its ability to dividend monies to the Company, all of which could have an adverse impact on the Company's business results and prospects. As a result of a number of factors, including incurred losses and risks reassumed from troubled reinsurers, FSA has from time to time exceeded regulatory risk limits. Failure to comply with these limits allows the New York Insurance Department to cause the Company to cease writing new business, although it has not done so in the past. 52 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to volatility in GAAP net income from incorporating its own credit risk in the valuation of liabilities carried at fair value. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" ("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets and financial liabilities not previously carried at fair value. The fair-value option may be applied to single eligible instruments, is irrevocable and is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments. The Company's fair value elections were intended to mitigate the volatility in earnings that had been created by not recording financial instruments and the related risk management instruments at fair value, to eliminate the operational complexities of applying hedge accounting or to conform to the fair value elections made by the Company in 2006 under its IFRS reporting to Dexia. However, under SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements," the Company must incorporate its own credit risk in the valuation of liabilities which are carried at fair value, which adds volatility to GAAP earnings. During 2008, the Company's credit spread widened, leading to material unrealized gains. The Company has received Department of Justice and SEC subpoenas and been named in class action lawsuits related to the municipal GIC industry. In November 2006, the Company received subpoenas from (1) the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ"), issued in connection with an ongoing criminal investigation of bid rigging of awards of municipal GICs, and (2) the SEC, issued in connection with an ongoing industry-wide civil investigation of brokers of municipal GICs. In February 2008, the Company received a "Wells Notice" from the SEC in connection with the foregoing investigation, indicating that the SEC staff was considering recommending action against the Company. The Company issues municipal GICs through the FP segment, but does not serve as a GIC broker. The subpoenas request that the Company furnish to the DOJ and SEC records and other information with respect to the Company's municipal GIC business. The Company is at risk that information provided pursuant to the subpoenas or otherwise provided to the government in the course of its investigation will lead to indictments of the Company and/or its employees, with the potential for convictions or settlements providing for the payment of fines, restitution, disgorgement, restrictions on future business activities and, in the case of individual employees, imprisonment. Such an adverse outcome would damage the reputation of the Company and might impair the ability of the Company to conduct its financial products business and its financial guaranty business. The Company has had ongoing discussions with the DOJ and the SEC, but cannot predict the amount of loss that may arise from these investigations. During 2008, nine putative class action lawsuits naming the Company and/or FSA were filed in federal court alleging antitrust violations in the municipal derivatives industry. The Company and FSA also are named in five non-class actions originally filed in the California Superior Courts alleging violations of California law related to the municipal derivatives industry. The suits name as plaintiffs various named and unnamed states and municipalities and name as defendants a large number of major financial institutions, including the Company and FSA. The lawsuits refer to the ongoing investigations by the DOJ Antitrust Division and the SEC regarding such activities, with respect to which the Company and FSA received subpoenas in November 2006. The complaints in these lawsuits generally seek unspecified monetary damages, interest, attorneys' fees, costs and other expenses. It is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation. There could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may arise from these lawsuits but, under some circumstances, adverse results in legal proceedings could be material to the Company's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 53 Table of Contents The Company's ability to make debt service payments on its outstanding debt is subject to the financial strength of its insurance company operations. Because it is a holding company, the registrant does not conduct operations or generate material income. Instead, FSA Holdings' financial condition and results of operations, and thus its long-term ability to service its debt, will largely depend on its receipt of dividends from, or share repurchases by, FSA. FSA's ability to declare and pay dividends to the Company depends, among other factors, upon FSA's financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, and compliance with rating agency requirements for maintaining its ratings, and is also subject to restrictions contained in the applicable insurance laws and regulations. Based on FSA's statutory statements for 2008, the maximum amount available for payment of dividends by FSA without regulatory approval over the 12 months following December 31, 2008 is approximately $62.0 million. The Company has $46.1 million in debt service payments due over the 12 months following December 31, 2008, unless it elects to defer payments on its junior subordinated debentures, which would reduce its annual debt service payments due by $19.2 million per year for up to 10 years. The Company's international operations expose it to less predictable credit and legal risks. The Company pursues opportunities in international markets and currently operates in various countries in Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America. The underwriting of obligations of an issuer in a foreign country involves the same process as that for a domestic issuer, but additional risks must be addressed, such as the evaluation of foreign currency exchange rates, foreign business and legal issues, and the economic and political environment of the foreign country or countries in which an issuer does business. Changes in such factors could impede the Company's ability to insure, or increase the risk of loss from insuring, obligations in the countries in which it currently does business and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities in other countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Item 1B is not applicable to the Company, because the Company is not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). 