ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest margin in diverse ways, including the pricing of loans and deposits, the levels of prepayments and asset quality. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates because many factors influencing interest rates are beyond our control. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to eliminate it. Based on our asset/liability position at December 31, 2007, we are vulnerable to continued decreases in short-term interest rates because of our asset-sensitive balance sheet profile. We believe that our current interest rate exposure is manageable and does not indicate any significant exposure to interest rate changes. However, the interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve Bank since September 2007 have immediately reduced our yield on variable-rate loans without a corresponding reduction in deposit costs, which will result in a decline in our net interest margin. We expect more pronounced net interest margin compression in 2008 if interest rates on our variable-rate loans continue to decline while competition for deposits hinders a decline in rates paid for deposits. Periods of rising interest rates or a decline in real estate values in our market will adversely affect our income from our mortgage company. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from our mortgage company, C&F Mortgage. In periods of rising interest rates, consumer demand for new mortgages and refinancings may decrease, which in turn could adversely impact our mortgage company. In addition, rising interest rates could create higher debt burden and default risk for borrowers who have adjustable-rate mortgage loans that reset at higher interest rates. Because interest rates depend on factors outside of our control, we cannot eliminate the interest rate risk associated with our mortgage operations. Certain credit markets have experienced difficult conditions and volatility during 2007 and there has been an increase in mortgage loan foreclosures throughout the United States. The majority of these foreclosures appear to involve borrowers who had financed home purchases or refinanced existing home mortgage loans with so-called subprime mortgage loans or alternative loan products. Mortgage loan foreclosures can result in increases in loan losses and require mortgage lenders to take ownership of the foreclosed real properties in order to mitigate potential loan losses, which can result in increased noninterest expenses. The Corporation originates a variety of residential loan products for sale into the secondary market through C&F Mortgage. These products include conventional residential mortgages, which are generally considered prime loans, and alternative loan products. This latter category of loans includes loans with higher loan to value ratios and loans with no or limited verification of a borrower’s income or assets stated on the loan application. The general market for these alternative loan products across the country has declined as a result of moderating real estate prices, increased payment defaults by borrowers and increased loan foreclosures. These factors may result in potential repurchase liability to our mortgage company on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market. While we mitigate the risk of repurchase liability by underwriting to the purchasers’ guidelines and do not believe that our exposure to this liability is significant at this time, we cannot be assured that a prolonged period of payment defaults and foreclosures will not result in an increase in requests for repurchases, which would adversely affect the Corporation’s net income. 11 Table of Contents Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by general economic and market conditions; broad trends in industry and finance; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies; and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decline in demand for our products and services; and a deterioration in the value of collateral for loans made by our various business segments. Our level of credit risk is increasing due to the concentration of our loan portfolio in commercial loans and in consumer finance loans. At December 31, 2007, 43 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity and residential loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. At December 31, 2007, 27 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer finance loans that provide automobile financing for customers in the non-prime market. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase in this portfolio. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which we may sell repossessed automobiles or delay the timing of these sales. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria and collection methods, we cannot guarantee that these criteria or methods will ultimately provide adequate protection against these risks. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, the results of our operations may be adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, the opinions of our regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of 12 Table of Contents any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Competition from other financial institutions and financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Our competition in originating loans and attracting deposits comes principally from other banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. We also depend upon the experience of the officers of our subsidiaries and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation’s Chief Operating Officer resigned effective February 29, 2008 because of family health considerations, he has agreed to assist management to assure a smooth transition. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in our primary markets. The successful implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. The market for qualified management personnel is competitive. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively and in a timely manner would limit our growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the beneficial aspects fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 