ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A continuation or deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation or deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely affect the Corporation’s performance, both directly by affecting our revenues and the value of our assets and liabilities, and indirectly by affecting our counterparties and the economy generally. Overall, during 2013 the economic environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in our markets, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States. Dramatic declines in the housing market that began during the recession have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The Corporation has recognized elevated loan loss provisions and write-downs and other expenses associated with foreclosed properties beginning in 2008 as the level of nonperforming assets increased throughout the period. The economic recovery has been less than robust and there can be no assurance that the measured economic recovery will continue. The continued high levels of unemployment coupled with the continued stagnation in the housing market has and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations. Deterioration in the soundness of our counterparties or disruptions to credit markets could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could create another market-wide liquidity crisis similar to that experienced in late 2008 and early 2009 and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, over the last several years developments in the global or national economies or financial markets have caused temporary disruptions in the credit and liquidity markets, which at times has restricted the flow of capital to credit markets and financial institutions, and future disruptions could restrict our ability to engage in routine funding transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. There is no assurance that the failure of our counterparties would not materially adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. Compliance with laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, both new and existing, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and supervision from both federal and state agencies. During the past few years, there has been an increase in legislation related to and regulation of the financial services industry. We expect this increased level of oversight to continue. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, not stockholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenues, costs, earnings, and capital levels. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. 14 The Dodd-Frank Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent years. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry regulatory environment within the United States and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will affect all financial institutions, including the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The federal regulatory agencies, and particularly bank regulatory agencies, have been given significant discretion in drafting the Dodd-Frank Act’s implementing rules and regulations, many of which have not been finalized. Consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on the final implementing rules and regulations, and it remains too early to fully assess the complete effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which when considered in connection with the Basel III capital framework and related regulatory proposals could significantly limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate hedging transactions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may increase our regulatory compliance burden and could affect the consumer financial products and services that we offer. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new financial consumer protection agency that could impose new regulations on us and include its examiners in our routine regulatory examinations conducted by the FDIC, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we can offer to our customers. This agency, named the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive consumer finance products or practices, which may directly affect the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Corporation. This agency’s broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service. Although the CFPB has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the CFPB may also apply to the Corporation or its subsidiaries by virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Further, the CFPB may include its own examiners in regulatory examinations by the Corporation's primary regulators. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Corporation with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined. However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may produce significant, material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Basel III capital framework will require higher levels of capital and liquid assets, which could adversely affect the Corporation's net income and return on equity. The Basel III capital framework represents the most comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking capital framework in over two decades. This new capital framework and related changes to the standardized calculations of risk-weighted assets are complex and create additional compliance burdens, especially for community banks. The Basel III Capital Rules require bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as the Corporation and C&F Bank, to maintain significantly more capital as a result of higher required capital levels and more demanding regulatory capital risk weightings and calculations. As a result of the Basel III Capital Rules, many community banks could be forced to limit banking operations and activities, and growth of loan portfolios, in order to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. The Corporation believes that it maintains sufficient levels of Tier 1 and Common Equity Tier 1 capital to comply with the Basel III Final Rules, as currently scheduled to be effective and implemented. However, the Corporation can offer no assurances with regard to the ultimate effect of the Basel III Capital Rules, and satisfying increased capital requirements imposed by the Basel III Capital Rules may require the Corporation to limit its banking operations, retain net income or reduce dividends to improve regulatory capital levels, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect our future financial performance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Banks. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Economic conditions since 2008 have increased the rate of bank failures and expectations for further bank failures, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF and prepare for future payments from the DIF. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted final rules to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessment rules, which became effective April 1, 2011. A depository institution’s deposit insurance assessment is now calculated based on the institution’s total assets less tangible equity, rather than the previous base of total deposits. While the Corporation’s FDIC insurance assessments have declined as a result of this change, the Banks' FDIC insurance premiums could increase if the Banks' asset size increases, if the FDIC raises base assessment rates, or if the FDIC takes other actions to replenish the DIF. Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve affect us significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower's products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower's earnings and ability to repay a loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings divided by total interest-earning assets. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest margin in diverse ways, including the pricing of loans and deposits, the levels of prepayments and asset quality. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates because many factors influencing interest rates are beyond our control. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to eliminate it. We believe that our current interest rate exposure is manageable and does not indicate any significant exposure to interest rate changes. Since the interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve Bank in September 2007, our net interest margin has recovered gradually over the past several years because we have been able to reprice fixed-rate deposits at lower rates, as well as implement policies that established floors on certain variable rate loans. The Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee has stated it will keep the federal funds target rate at 0%-0.25% until economic and labor conditions (as indicated by the unemployment rate) improve, which is currently expected to be until 2015. While such a continuance of accommodative monetary policy could allow us to continue to reprice a portion of our fixed-rate deposits at lower rates, sustained low interest rates could put further pressure on the yields generated by our loan portfolio and on our net interest margin. There is no guarantee we will continue to be able to reprice deposits at favorable rates as competition for deposits from both local and national financial institutions is intense, and continued pressure on our asset yields and net interest margin could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of C&F Finance’s funding is indexed to short-term interest rates and reprices as short-term interest rates change. An upward movement in interest rates may result in an unfavorable pricing disparity between C&F Finance’s fixed rate loan portfolio and its adjustable-rate borrowings. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Deterioration in economic conditions, such as the recent recession, continuing high unemployment, and further declines in real estate values, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by general economic and market conditions; broad trends in industry and finance; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies; and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular a prolonged economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decline in demand for our products and services; and a deterioration in the value of collateral for loans made by our various business segments. 16 Our level of credit risk is higher due to the concentration of our loan portfolio in commercial loans and in consumer finance loans. At December 31, 2013, 23 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, which include loans secured by real estate for builder lines, acquisition and development and commercial development, as well as commercial loans secured by personal property. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity and residential loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. At December 31, 2013, 34 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer finance loans that provide automobile financing for customers in the non-prime market. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses may increase in this portfolio. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which we may sell repossessed automobiles or delay the timing of these sales. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria for installment sales contracts we purchase and collection methods, we cannot guarantee that these criteria or methods will ultimately provide adequate protection against these risks. Competition from other financial institutions and financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Our competition in originating loans and attracting deposits comes principally from other banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets will adversely affect income from our mortgage company. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from C&F Mortgage, which originates a variety of residential loan products for sale into the secondary market to investors. Increases in the 10-year treasury rate that occurred during 2013 caused mortgage rates to increase, which in turn caused a dramatic decline in refinance activity, dampened demand for residential mortgage loans, and resulted in pressure on loan origination volume at C&F Mortgage. In addition, credit markets have continued to experience difficult conditions and volatility. While payment defaults by borrowers and mortgage loan foreclosures may have abated, investors continue to submit claims in an attempt to minimize their losses. This may result in potential repurchase or indemnification liability to C&F Mortgage on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market in the event of claims by investors of borrower misrepresentation, fraud, early-payment default, or underwriting error, as investors attempt to minimize their losses. While we entered into an agreement with our then largest purchaser of loans that resolved all known and unknown indemnification obligations related to loans sold to this investor through 2010, and while we mitigate the risk of repurchase liability by underwriting to the purchasers’ guidelines, we cannot be assured that a prolonged period of payment defaults and foreclosures will not result in an increase in requests for repurchases or indemnifications, or that established reserves will be adequate, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income. Our home lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from C&F Mortgage, which originates a variety of single-family residential loan products for sale to investors in the secondary market. The existence of an active secondary market is dependent upon the continuation of programs currently offered by government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), the FHA, the VA, the USDA, and state bond programs, which account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are GSEs whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of the GSEs could adversely affect our mortgage company’s operations. Further, in September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. Although to date, the conservatorship has not had a significant or adverse effect on our operations, it is unclear whether further changes or reforms would adversely affect our operations. Although we sell loans to various intermediaries, the ability of these aggregators to purchase loans would be limited if the GSEs cease to exist or materially limit their purchases of mortgage loans. 17 Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and the subsequent final rules issued by the CFPB in January 2013 amending Regulation Z, as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, effective January 2014 mortgage lenders are responsible for making a reasonable and good faith determination, based on verified and documented information, that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. These CFPB rules require a mortgage lender to either (i) originate "qualified mortgages," defined as loans that do not include negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms longer than 30 years; or (ii) originate loans that consider eight separate underwriting factors that are identified in the CFPB rules to evaluate each borrower's ability to repay. These CFPB rules, in addition to other previously-issued and to-be-issued CFPB regulations, could materially affect our ability to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses for relevant periods of time, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, current economic conditions that may affect a borrower’s ability to repay and the value of collateral, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the effect of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. 18 Our real estate lending business can result in increased costs associated with foreclosed properties. Because we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, included, but not limited to general or local economic conditions, environmental cleanup liability, neighborhood values, interest rates, real estate tax rates, operating expenses of the mortgaged properties, and supply of and demand for properties. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of income-producing real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the net cash flows generated by the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating income-producing real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. It may be difficult to integrate the business of CVB and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of CVB. If our costs to integrate the business of CVB into our existing operations are greater than anticipated or we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, loss of customers, error or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our ability to service our existing business and generate new business, which in turn could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of CVB that are materially greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value adjustments. We accounted for the CVB acquisition under the acquisition method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of CVB at fair value based on preliminary acquisition accounting adjustments. Under acquisition accounting, we have until one year after the acquisition date to finalize the fair value adjustments, meaning we may adjust the preliminary fair value estimates of CVB's assets and liabilities based on new or updated information that provided a better estimate of the fair value at acquisition date. We recorded at fair value all purchased credit-impaired loans acquired based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using specific credit reviews of certain loans, quantitative credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk models, and qualitative economic and environmental assessments, each of which uses assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain, and involves the exercise of our best judgment in making those assumptions. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-acquisition carrying value of purchased credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows - the nonaccretable difference - is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses and related provision expense due to subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans. For more information see, "Critical Accounting Policies - Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans" in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report. Acquisition of CVBK's assets and assumption of CVBK's liabilities may expose us to intangible asset risk, which could affect our result of operations and financial condition. In connection with accounting for the acquisition of CVBK, we recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which resulted in us recording certain intangible assets, including goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance, may significantly affect the fair value of any goodwill (including goodwill related to the CVBK acquisition) and may trigger impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. 19 We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to operations and the Corporation's business strategy. The Corporation has invested in information security technologies and continually reviews processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Corporation's computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Such security breaches could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. We rely on standard security systems and procedures to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure collection, transmission and storage of sensitive data. These systems and procedures include but are not limited to (i) regular penetration testing of our network perimeter, (ii) regular employee training programs on sound security practices, (iii) deployment of tools to monitor our network including intrusion prevention and detection systems, electronic mail spam filters, anti-virus and anti-malware, resource logging and patch management, (iv) multifactor authentication for customers using treasury management tools, and (v) enforcement of security policies and procedures for the additions and maintenance of user access and rights to resources. While most of our core data processing is conducted internally, certain key applications are outsourced to third party providers. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third parties, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Our business is technology dependent and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, which may require substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create synergies in our operations through the use of technology. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot assure that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Changes in accounting standards and management’s selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially affect our financial statements. From time to time, the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially affect how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, the Corporation may experience unexpected material consequences. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. We also depend upon the experience of the officers of our subsidiaries and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 The success of our business strategies depends on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in our primary markets. The successful implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. The market for qualified management personnel is competitive. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage our operations effectively and in a timely manner could limit our growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the beneficial aspects fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively affect our future success. Our common stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors. Our common stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, and reports of trends and concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our common stock price may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Future sales of our common stock by shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our common stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock may be lower than that of other larger financial institutions. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the potential for lower relative trading volume in our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of these sales or perceptions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 