Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Operations We likely will need additional financing to fund our operations and may not be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have incurred substantial operating losses through December 31, 2011 and may never generate substantial revenue or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have financed our operating losses through the public and private sale of shares of our common stock and preferred stock. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash from our business to fund our operations without having to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. We believe our existing resources and currently projected financial results, which give effect to a reduction in certain operating expenses, are sufficient to fund our operations into the third quarter of 2012. In the event that investors in our 2012 convertible debt financing exercise in full the outstanding additional investment rights to purchase additional notes and related warrants, which would provide an additional $735,000 of capital, and provided the Company is able to raise an additional $1.3 million of capital through the sale of equity or debt securities, which the Company is actively pursuing, or the exercise of existing warrants, we believe we would have resources sufficient to fund our operations at least through the end of 2012. The Company anticipates that it will need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities, or the exercise of existing warrants, to fund operations beyond 2012. We believe that the extent to which the Company will need additional capital to fund operations beyond 2012 will largely be dependent upon the number and growth in MTWA Module placements and the rate at which utilization of our MTWA Test increases. If we encounter material deviations from our plans including, but not limited to, any lower than expected level of sales to our OEM Partner, or lower than expected sales of our HearTwave II Systems, our ability to fund our operations will be negatively impacted. While the proceeds from our 2012 convertible debt financing provide the Company with financing to fund the Company’s operations for a period of time, the Company anticipates that it will need to raise additional capital to fund operations, including clinical research, beyond 2012. In the current economic environment, financing for technology and medical device companies has become increasingly difficult to obtain. Any additional financing may not be available in the amount we need or on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of the Company by our stockholders would be diluted. In addition, we may have to issue equity or debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our existing securities, including our common stock. So long as any secured convertible promissory notes issued in connection with the January and February 2012 private placement financing are outstanding, the Company may not, without the consent of holders of 65% of the notes, raise capital through the sale of debt or enter into any agreement to modify the terms of any equity securities currently outstanding. 12 Table of Contents We have significant debt that must be serviced over the next eighteen months which will place priority demands on our liquidity and we may have difficulty obtaining the necessary funds to pay principal and interest when due. As of March 30, 2012, we have senior secured convertible promissory notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of approximately $2.9 million which mature on July 17, 2013 (the “Notes”). The Notes bear interest at a rate of 8% per annum due and payable quarterly. Unless certain conditions are met permitting us to pay interest on the Notes in shares of our common stock, interest on the Notes must be paid in cash. Additionally, unless a holder elects to convert the Notes, we are obliged to repay the principal in cash upon maturity. Our obligation to make payments in cash may decrease our discretionary liquidity and potentially restrict our prospects to increase our total revenues to levels necessary to achieve self-sustaining cash flow from operations. Further, in the event that we are unable to pay the interest or principal on the Notes when due, we may have to seek additional financing, and there can be no guarantee that such financing would be available on a timely basis, on terms that are acceptable or at all. Failure to comply with the payment and covenant obligations associated with our outstanding debt could result in the acceleration of maturity or other monetary penalties. In January and February 2012, we entered into Subscription Agreements with certain investors pursuant to which we issued the Notes. Each of the Subscription Agreements, as well as the Notes, contain certain payment and covenant obligations with which the Company must comply. Failure to comply with our payment and covenant obligations under the Notes could result in acceleration of debt maturity or the imposition of monetary penalties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event of acceleration of the Notes, we may be unable to pay the principal and interest on the Notes when due, and consequently, we may have to seek additional financing which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We granted a security interest in all of our assets in connection with our issuance of senior secured convertible promissory notes in January and February 2012. In connection with the sale and issuance of the Notes, we entered into a Security Agreement, dated January 17, 2012, to secure obligations of the Company under the Notes. If we default under the Notes, the holders will be entitled to foreclose on our assets pursuant to the Security Agreement. If the Note holders foreclose on some or all of our assets, we may be forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operation. If we cannot increase revenue significantly, or obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our independent registered public accountants included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion because of our recurring losses, inability to generate positive cash flows from operations, and liquidity uncertainties from operations. If we are unable to generate adequate cash flow or obtain sufficient additional funding when needed, we may have to sell some or all of our assets, license potentially valuable technologies to third parties and/or cease some or all of our operations. This would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock. In order to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, we will be required to obtain stockholder approval to increase the number of shares authorized for issuance under our Certificate of Incorporation. On an as-converted basis, the Company has 124,659,416 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including 100,112,960 shares of common stock issued, 4,180,602 shares issuable upon conversion of the Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and 20,365,854 shares issuable upon conversion of the Series D Convertible 13 Table of Contents Preferred Stock. Additionally, the Company has reserved 15,660,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants issued in connection with the sale of our common stock in December 2010, 26,727,266 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of secured convertible promissory notes issued in January and February 2012, 26,727,266 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants issued in connection with the sale of secured convertible promissory notes in January and February 2012 and 13,363,633 shares of common stock for issuance upon the conversion of additional secured convertible promissory notes and warrants that may be issued upon the exercise of additional investment rights issued in connection with the sale of secured convertible promissory notes in January and February 2012. The Company also has stock options outstanding to purchase up to an aggregate of 10,055,545 shares of common stock. Under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation there are only 250,000,000 shares of common stock authorized. Consequently, the Company will be limited in its ability to issue additional common stock or debt or equity convertible into common stock without amending the Certificate of Incorporation, which would require the approval of the holders of 75% of the voting power of all shares of the Company’s capital stock, voting together as a class. If the stockholders do not approve such an amendment, we would be very limited in our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and could cause the Company to cease operations. Our outstanding preferred stock has rights, preference and privileges senior to our common stock. At December 31, 2011, there are 5,000 shares of our Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,670 shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. The Series C-1 Preferred Stock and the Series D Preferred Stock have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. See Note 10 of the notes to the financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of these rights, preferences and privileges. We depend on our MTWA technology for a majority of our revenue, and if it does not achieve broad market acceptance, our ability to execute our business plan and achieve meaningful revenue will be limited. We believe that our ability to succeed in the future will depend, in large part, upon the successful market acceptance of our MTWA technology. Market acceptance will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the diagnostic advantages and cost-effectiveness of this technology. The failure of our MTWA technology to achieve broad market acceptance, the failure of the market for our products to grow or to grow at the rate we anticipate, or a decline in the price of our products due to competitive pressures or a decline in the availability of reimbursement, would reduce our revenues and further limit our ability to succeed. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that we or any current or future strategic partners will be able to successfully commercialize or achieve market acceptance of our MTWA technology or that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that are perceived to be superior to our technology. The economic and financial market downturn and tightening of the credit markets has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business. The deterioration of economic conditions has had an adverse impact on our existing and target customers. These conditions, in turn, have significantly influenced customers’ buying decisions. Given that a significant part of our revenue comes from small to medium sized cardiology practices with limited financial resources, these conditions have and may continue to negatively affect our sales. If the economy continues to decline, customers may continue to delay or refrain from purchasing our products. A critical component of our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels through strategic alliances. If we are unable to establish sufficient distribution partnerships or if the timing is slower than expected, our business plan will be adversely impacted. Our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels by establishing alliances with medical device partners and distributors with synergistic attributes. The widespread adoption of our technology may be dependent on 14 Table of Contents establishing and maintaining these strategic relationships. Successfully establishing and managing such relationships may be difficult given the current environment. Furthermore, the financial terms of the relationships will have a direct impact on our operating results. When or if such partnerships are established, we may have to contend with competing interests of our potential partners and/or distributors. In June 2009, we entered into a Development, Distribution and Supply Agreement with Cardiac Science to develop and market our MTWA Module, which allows our MTWA Test using our proprietary Micro-V Alternans Sensors to be performed on Cardiac Science’s Q-Stress test platform. Cardiac Science is marketing the MTWA Module as an upgrade to its existing installed base of Q-Stress Systems and as an optional feature to new stress customers. However, there can be no assurance that the relationship with our Cardiac Science will succeed in increasing sales or market acceptance of our MTWA Module. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether additional relationships are attainable at all, and if so, whether they would be on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Our ability to generate revenue from the sales of our MTWA Module is dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of third party stress test manufacturers. Under our agreement with Cardiac Science, we sell and deliver to Cardiac Science the MTWA Module and our Micro-V Alternans Sensors. Cardiac Science is reselling these products for use with their Q-Stress test platform through its direct sales force and through its network of distributors and sub-distributors. In July 2011, we reached an agreement with Cardiac Science to include the MTWA Module on new Q-Stress System sales through the end of the year. During this period, the MTWA Module was supplied to Cardiac Science at no charge and was included in new Q-Stress Systems at no incremental cost to the customer. In January 2012, this program was extended to March 31, 2012. If Cardiac Science is unable to sell and/or place the MTWA Module and our Micro-V Alternans Sensors effectively or limits the amount of time and resources that it devotes to marketing these products, it could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, if our distribution arrangement with Cardiac Science is unsuccessful, we may have to reconsider our sales and marketing strategy, which may also materially and adversely affect the sale of our products and our financial condition. We face substantial competition in the market for cardiac diagnostic devices from substantially larger and better financed competitors, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products more successfully than we do. Competition from competitors’ medical devices that diagnose cardiac disease is intense and likely to increase. Our success will depend on our ability to develop product enhancements and applications for technologies, as well as our ability to establish and maintain a market for our products. We compete with manufacturers of electrocardiogram stress tests, the conventional method of diagnosing ischemic heart disease, and GE Medical Systems. GE Medical Systems has introduced an analysis system to measure t-wave alternans and has received concurrence from the FDA of its 510(k) allowing it to distribute the product in the United States. However, GE Medical Systems’ methodology for determining MTWA is not covered by CMS. CMS continues coverage of MTWA testing using the Analytic Spectral Method, which is our patented and proprietary method of analysis, and found insufficient evidence for coverage of MTWA testing using any other method. We believe that if GE can secure the reimbursement for its MTWA methodology with Medicare it will pose a significant risk to the success of our business In addition, many of our current as well as prospective competitors have substantially greater capital resources, name recognition, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Many of these competitors offer broad, well-established product lines and ancillary services not offered by us. Some of our competitors also enjoy long-term or preferential supply arrangements with physicians and hospitals which may act as a barrier to market entry. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. These fluctuations may be due to several factors relating to the sale of our products, including: • the timing of our sales transactions concerning our MTWA products; • delays encountered in in-servicing our MTWA products; • unpredictable sales cycles; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in our operating expenses; • product quality problems; • personnel changes; and • fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. There can be no assurance that future revenue and results of operations will not vary substantially. It is also possible that in future quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of investors, analysts or our announced guidance, if any. In any such case, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. The results of future clinical studies may not support the usefulness of our technology. We participate in clinical studies relating to our MTWA technology in order to more firmly establish the predictive value of the technology. Any clinical study or trial which fails to demonstrate that the measurement of MTWA is at least comparable in accuracy to alternative diagnostic tests, or which otherwise calls into question the cost-effectiveness, efficacy or safety of our technology, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We obtain critical components and sub-assemblies for the manufacture of our products from a limited group of suppliers, and if our suppliers fail to meet our requirements we may be unable to meet customer demand and our customer relationships would suffer. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. Our dependence on a single supplier or limited group of smaller suppliers for critical components and sub-assemblies exposes us to several risks, including: • a potential for interruption or inconsistency in the supply of components or sub-assemblies, leading to backorders and product shortages; • a potential for inconsistent quality of components or sub-assemblies supplied, leading to reduced customer satisfaction or increased product costs and delays in shipments of our products to customers and distributors; and • inconsistent pricing. We can give no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify additional suppliers of critical components and sub-assemblies in a timely manner. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more key components or sub-assemblies included in our products could seriously harm our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We may have difficulty responding to changing technology. The medical device market is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to anticipate and keep pace with advancing technology and competitive innovations. However, we may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. In addition, we can give no assurance that new products or alternative diagnostic techniques that will render our current or planned products obsolete or inferior will not be developed. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred with respect to such products. We depend exclusively on third parties to support the commercialization of our products internationally. We market our products internationally through independent distributors. These distributors also distribute competing products under certain circumstances. The loss of a significant international distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business if a new distributor, sales representative or other suitable sales organization cannot be found on a timely basis in the relevant geographic market. Because we rely on distributors for international sales, any revenues we receive in those territories will depend upon the efforts of our distributors. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that a distributor will market our products successfully or that the terms of any future distribution arrangements will be acceptable to us. If economic conditions or slow market adoption of our MTWA technology cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, our gross margin and operating results will likely worsen. The average selling prices of our products are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that may impact our selling prices include: • changes in reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; • physician practices and hospital budgetary constraints; • the introduction of competing products; • tightening of credit for customers seeking financing for their purchase of our equipment; and • delays in purchasing decisions. If such external factors cause us to offer our products at lower prices and we are unable to mitigate the lower selling prices with lower cost of goods, our gross margins and operating results will likely decline. Risks Related to the Market for Cardiac Diagnostic Equipment If we are not able to both obtain and maintain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for our products, it would have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products depends on our first obtaining, and then maintaining, adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for use of these products by our customers. The amount of reimbursement in the U.S. that is available for clinical use of the MTWA Test varies. In the U.S., the cost of medical care is funded, in substantial part, by government insurance programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private and corporate health insurance plans. Third-party payers will seek to deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, investigative unnecessary or inappropriate. Reimbursement rates for services covered by Medicare are determined by reference to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, and are calculated based on multiple components, including relative value units, 17 Table of Contents conversion factor and geographical adjustment. The Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rates are updated annually and have resulted in negative updates since 2002. In July 2010, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which we refer to as CMS, issued a revised Medicare Physician Fee Schedule reflecting, among other things, a change in the conversion factor component of the reimbursement calculations as a result of the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, which was signed into law on June 25, 2010. In November 2010, CMS published their final reimbursement rules for 2011, effective January 1, 2011, which would have resulted in a decrease in reimbursement rates by as much as 30%. However, in December 2010, Congress enacted legislation to sustain reimbursement at the 2010 level through December 2011. Effective January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, the national average Medicare payment amount for a MTWA Test was $200. Recent legislative action prevented the scheduled reduction of the conversion factor and the geographic practice cost index (GPCI) floor components of the reimbursement calculation until February 29, 2012. However, the remainder of the 2012 MPFS, including the relative value units, went into effect as scheduled on January 1, 2012. For the period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, the national average Medicare payment amount for a MTWA Test is set at $183. Any reduction in reimbursement, material change in indication or reversal of private payer coverage for our MTWA Test may affect the demand for, price of, or utilization of our HearTwave II System, MTWA Module or Micro-V Alternans Sensors, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance in the U.S. and in other countries in which we conduct business, including clinical trials and product marketing and sales, such coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on Cambridge Heart, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our ability to build a successful business depends on our ability to first obtain, and then maintain, patent protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products both in the U.S. and in other countries and then enforce these patents. However, the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We can give no assurance that patents will issue as a result of any patent applications we own or license or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. In addition, any issued patents we own or license may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, and we can give no assurance that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, or disclose such technology or that we can ultimately protect meaningful rights to such unpatented proprietary technologies. Any claim by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights, whether intentionally or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others and/or breaching the licenses upon which our products and technologies are based. We have licensed significant technology and patents from third parties, including patents and technology relating to MTWA licensed from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Our licenses of patents and patent applications impose various 18 Table of Contents commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, royalty and other obligations on our part. If we fail to comply with these requirements, licenses could convert from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or could terminate, either of which would adversely affect our business. Any future litigation over intellectual property rights would likely involve significant expense on our part as well as distract our management from day-to-day business operations. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, which would likely result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us and/or to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In particular, our competitors and other third parties hold issued patents and are assumed to hold pending patent applications, which may result in claims of infringement against us or other patent litigation. We also may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial cost. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 