Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Operations We likely will need additional financing to fund our operations and may not be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have incurred substantial operating losses through December 31, 2010 and may never generate substantial revenue or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have financed our operating losses through the public and private sale of shares of our common stock and preferred stock. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash from our business to fund our operations without having to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity securities and/or the exercise of outstanding common stock warrants. We believe that our existing resources and currently projected financial results are only sufficient to fund our operations through approximately December 31, 2011. If we encounter material deviations from our plans including, but not limited to, any lower than expected level of sales to Cardiac Science, or if we continue to experience lower than expected sales of our HearTwave II Systems, our ability to fund our operations will be negatively impacted. While the proceeds from our December 2010 private placement of common stock and the exercise of common stock warrants provides the Company with financing to fund the Company’s operations for a period of time, the Company anticipates that it will need to raise additional capital to fund operations beyond 2011. 11 Table of Contents In the current economic environment, financing for technology and medical device companies has become increasingly difficult to obtain. Any additional financing may not be available in the amount we need or on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of the Company by our stockholders would be diluted. In addition, we may have to issue equity or debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our existing securities, including our common stock. If we cannot increase revenue significantly, or obtain sufficient capital through the sale of equity or debt securities and/or the exercise of outstanding common stock warrants, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our auditors included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion because of our recurring losses, inability to generate cash flows from operations, and liquidity uncertainties. If we are unable to generate adequate cash flow or obtain sufficient additional funding when needed, we may have to sell some or all of our assets, license potentially valuable technologies to third parties and/or cease some or all of our operations. This would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock. In order to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, we will be required to obtain stockholder approval to increase the number of shares authorized for issuance under our Certificate of Incorporation. On an as-converted basis, the Company has 124,260,153 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including 97,494,185 shares of common stock issued, 4,180,602 shares issuable upon conversion of the Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and 22,585,366 shares issuable upon conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. Additionally, the Company has reserved 15,660,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants issued to investors and the selling agent in connection with the sale of our common stock in December 2010 and has stock options outstanding to purchase up to an aggregate of 9,816,545 shares of common stock. Under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation there are only 150,000,000 shares of common stock authorized. Consequently, the Company will be limited in its ability to issue additional common stock or debt or equity convertible into common stock without amending the Certificate of Incorporation, which would require the approval of the holders of 75% of the voting power of all shares of the Company’s capital stock, voting together as a class. If the stockholders do not approve such an amendment, we would not be able to raise capital through the sale of equity securities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and could cause the Company to cease operations. Our outstanding preferred stock has rights, preference and privileges senior to our common stock. At December 31, 2010, there are 5,000 shares of our Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,852 shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. The Series C-1 Preferred Stock and the Series D Preferred Stock have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. See note 8 of the notes to the financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of these rights, preferences and privileges. We depend on our MTWA technology for a majority of our revenue, and if it does not achieve broad market acceptance, our ability to execute our business plan and achieve meaningful revenue will be limited. We believe that our ability to succeed in the future will depend, in large part, upon the successful market acceptance of our MTWA technology. Market acceptance will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the diagnostic advantages and cost-effectiveness of this technology. The failure of our MTWA technology to achieve broad market acceptance, the failure of the market for our products to grow or to grow at the rate we anticipate, or a decline in the price of our products due to competitive pressures or a decline in the availability of 12 Table of Contents reimbursement, would reduce our revenues and further limit our ability to succeed. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that we or any current or future strategic partner(s) will be able to successfully commercialize or achieve market acceptance of our MTWA technology or that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that are perceived to be superior to our technology. The economic and financial market downturn and tightening of the credit markets has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business. The weak economic conditions have had an adverse impact on our existing and target customers. These conditions, also have had a significant influence on customers’ buying decisions. Given that a significant part of our revenue comes from sales of capital equipment to small to medium sized cardiology practices with limited financial resources, the tightening of credit has and may continue to negatively affect our sales. If the economy continues to decline and credit continues to be difficult to obtain, customers may continue to delay or refrain from purchasing our equipment. A critical component of our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels through strategic alliances. If we are unable to establish sufficient distribution partnerships or if the timing is slower than expected, our business plan will be adversely impacted. Our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels by establishing alliances with medical device partners and distributors with synergistic attributes. The widespread adoption of our technology may be dependent on establishing and maintaining these strategic relationships. Successfully establishing and managing such relationships may be difficult given the current environment. Furthermore, the financial terms of the relationships will have a direct impact on our operating results. Moreover, when, or if, such partnerships are established, we may have to contend with competing interests of our potential partners and/or distributors. In June 2009, we partnered with Cardiac Science to develop and market the MTWA Module, which allows our MTWA Test, using our proprietary Micro-V Alternans Sensors, to be performed on Cardiac Science’s Q-Stress test platform. Cardiac Science markets the MTWA Module as an upgrade to its existing installed base of Q-Stress Systems and as an optional feature to new stress customers. However, there can be no assurance that the relationship with Cardiac Science will succeed in increasing sales or market acceptance of our MTWA Module. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether additional relationships are attainable at all, and if so, whether they would be on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Our ability to generate revenue from the sales of our MTWA Module is dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of third party stress test manufacturers. Under our agreement with Cardiac Science, we sell and deliver to Cardiac Science the MTWA Module and our Micro-V Alternans Sensors. Cardiac Science is reselling these products for use with their Q-Stress test platform through its direct sales force and through its network of distributors and sub-distributors. If Cardiac Science is unable to sell the MTWA Module and our Micro-V Alternans Sensors effectively or limits the amount of time and resources that it devotes to marketing these products, it could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, if our distribution arrangement with Cardiac Science is unsuccessful, we may have to reconsider our sales and marketing strategy, which may also materially and adversely affect the sale of our products and our financial condition. In addition, we are unsure what effect, if any, the sales of our MTWA Module through Cardiac Science will have on our current direct selling efforts. We face substantial competition in the market for cardiac diagnostic devices from substantially larger and better financed competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products more successfully than we do. Competition from competitors’ medical devices that diagnose cardiac disease is intense and likely to increase. Our success will depend on our ability to develop product enhancements and applications for 13 Table of Contents technologies, as well as our ability to establish and maintain a market for our products. We compete with manufacturers of electrocardiogram stress tests, the conventional method of diagnosing ischemic heart disease, and GE Medical Systems. GE Medical Systems has introduced an analysis system to measure t-wave alternans and has received concurrence from the FDA of its 510(k) allowing it to distribute the product in the United States. However, GE Medical Systems’ methodology for determining MTWA is not covered by CMS. CMS continues coverage of MTWA testing using the Analytic Spectral Method, which is our patented and proprietary method of analysis, and found insufficient evidence for coverage of MTWA testing using any other method. We believe if GE can secure the reimbursement for its MTWA methodology with Medicare it will pose a significant risk to the success of our business. See Competition in Item 1. “Business” for a discussion of the competitive factors affecting our business. In addition, many of our current as well as prospective competitors have substantially greater capital resources, name recognition, research and development regulatory, manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Many of these competitors offer broad, well-established product lines and ancillary services not offered by us. Some of our competitors also enjoy long-term or preferential supply arrangements with physicians and hospitals which may act as a barrier to market entry. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. These fluctuations may be due to several factors relating to the sale of our products, including: • the timing of our sales transactions of our MTWA products; • unpredictable sales cycles; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in our operating expenses; • product quality problems; • personnel changes; and • fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. There can be no assurance that future revenue and results of operations will not vary substantially. It is also possible that in future quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of investors, analysts or our announced guidance, if any. In any such case, the price of our common stock could materially be affected adversely. The results of future clinical studies may not support the usefulness of our technology. We participate in clinical studies relating to our MTWA technology in order to more firmly establish the predictive value of such technologies. Any clinical study or trial which fails to demonstrate that the measurement of MTWA is at least comparable in accuracy to alternative diagnostic tests, or which otherwise calls into question the cost-effectiveness, efficacy or safety of our technology, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We obtain critical components and sub-assemblies for the manufacture of our products from a limited group of suppliers, and if our suppliers fail to meet our requirements we may be unable to meet customer demand and our customer relationships would suffer. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. Our dependence on a single supplier or limited group of smaller suppliers for critical components and sub-assemblies exposes us to several risks, including: • a potential for interruption, or inconsistency in the supply of components or sub-assemblies, leading to backorders and product shortages; • a potential for inconsistent quality of components or sub-assemblies supplied, leading to reduced customer satisfaction or increased product costs and delays in shipments of our products to customers and distributors; and • inconsistent pricing. We can give no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify additional suppliers of critical components and sub-assemblies in a timely manner. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more key components or sub-assemblies included in our products could seriously harm our results of operations. We may have difficulty responding to changing technology. The medical device market is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to anticipate and keep pace with advancing technology and competitive innovations. However, we may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. In addition, we can give no assurance that new products or alternative diagnostic techniques that will render our current or planned products obsolete or inferior will not be developed. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred with respect to such products. We depend exclusively on third parties to support the commercialization of our products internationally. We market our products internationally through independent distributors. These distributors also distribute competing products under certain circumstances. The loss of a significant international distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business if a new distributor, sales representative or other suitable sales organization cannot be found on a timely basis in the relevant geographic market. Because we rely on distributors for international sales, any revenues we receive in those territories will depend upon the efforts of our distributors. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that a distributor will market our products successfully or that the terms of any future distribution arrangements will be acceptable to us. If economic conditions or slow market adoption of our MTWA technology cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, our gross margin and operating results will likely worsen. The average selling prices of our products are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that may impact our selling prices include: • changes in reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; • physician practices and hospital budgetary constraints; • the introduction of competing products; • tightening of credit for customers seeking financing for their purchase of our equipment; and • delays in purchasing decisions. If such external factors cause us to offer our products at lower prices and we are unable to mitigate the lower selling prices with lower cost of goods, our gross margins and operating results will likely decline. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for Cardiac Diagnostic Equipment If we are not able to both obtain and maintain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for our products, it would have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products depends on our first obtaining, and then maintaining, adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for use of these products by our customers. The amount of reimbursement in the U.S. that is available for clinical use of the MTWA Test varies. In the U.S., the cost of medical care is funded, in substantial part, by government insurance programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private and corporate health insurance plans. Third-party payers will seek to deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, investigative unnecessary or inappropriate. Reimbursement rates for services covered by Medicare are determined by reference to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, and are calculated based on multiple components, including relative value units, conversion factor and geographical adjustment. The Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rates are updated annually and have resulted in negative updates since 2002. In November 2009, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which we refer to as CMS, issued its final ruling on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule effective January 1, 2010. This ruling set forth a reduction in relative value unit for nearly all cardiovascular services to be phased in over a four-year period. The final rule also included an additional 21% reduction in the conversion factor component of the reimbursement calculations. However, CMS temporarily maintained the conversion factor at the 2009 level until June 1, 2010. In July 2010, CMS issued a revised Medicare Physician Fee Schedule reflecting, among other things, a change in the conversion factor as a result of the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, which was signed into law on June 25, 2010. This legislation provided for a 2.2% increase to the 2010 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, effective for dates of service June 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010, which sets the national average Medicare payment amount for a MTWA Test at $205.31. In November 2010, CMS published their final reimbursement rules for 2011, effective January 1, 2011, which would have resulted in a decrease in reimbursement rates by as much as 30%. However, in December 2010, Congress enacted legislation to sustain reimbursement at the 2010 level through December 2011. Effective January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, the national average Medicare payment amount for a MTWA Test is $200. Any reduction in reimbursement, material change in indication or reversal of private payer coverage for our MTWA Test may affect the demand for, price of, or utilization of our HearTwave II System, MTWA Module or Micro-V Alternans Sensors, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance in the U.S. and in other countries in which we conduct business, including clinical trials and product marketing and sales, such coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on Cambridge Heart, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our ability to build a successful business depends on our ability to first obtain, and then maintain, patent protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products both in the U.S. and in other countries and then enforce these patents. However, the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We can give no assurance that patents will issue as a result of any patent applications we own or license or that, if patents do 16 Table of Contents issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. In addition, any issued patents we own or license may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, and we can give no assurance that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, or disclose such technology or that we can ultimately protect meaningful rights to such unpatented proprietary technologies. Any claim by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights, whether intentionally or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others and/or breaching the licenses upon which our products and technologies are based. We have licensed significant technology and patents from third parties, including patents and technology relating to MTWA licensed from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Our licenses of patents and patent applications impose various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, royalty and other obligations on our part. If we fail to comply with these requirements, licenses could convert from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or could terminate, either of which would adversely affect our business. Any future litigation over intellectual property rights would likely involve significant expense on our part as well as distract our management from day-to-day business operations. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, which would likely result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us and/or to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In particular, our competitors and other third parties hold issued patents and are assumed to hold pending patent applications, which may result in claims of infringement against us or other patent litigation. We also may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial cost. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 