Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Operations We depend on our MTWA technology for a majority of our revenue, and if it does not achieve broad market acceptance, our ability to execute our business plan and achieve meaningful revenue will be limited. We believe that our ability to succeed in the future will depend, in large part, upon the successful commercialization and market acceptance of our MTWA technology. Market acceptance will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the diagnostic advantages and cost-effectiveness of this technology. The failure of our MTWA technology to achieve broad market acceptance, the failure of the market for our products to grow or to grow at the rate we anticipate, or a decline in the price of our products due to competitive pressures or a decline in the availability of reimbursement, would reduce our revenues and further limit our ability to succeed. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that we or a strategic partner, if any, will be able to successfully commercialize or achieve market acceptance of our MTWA technology or that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that are perceived to be superior to our technology. The recent economic and financial market downturn has and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business. The deterioration of the economic conditions has had an adverse impact on our existing and target customers. These conditions in turn pose significant influence on customers’ buying decisions. Secondly, given that a significant part of our revenue comes from sales of capital equipment to small to medium sized cardiology practices, the tightening of credit has and may continue to negatively affect our sales. If the economy continues to decline and credit becomes increasingly difficult to obtain, customers may continue to delay or refrain from purchasing our equipment. If economic conditions or slow market adoption of our MTWA technology cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, our gross margin and operating results will likely worsen. The average selling prices of our products are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that may impact our selling prices include: • changes in reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; • physician practices and hospital budgetary constraints; • the introduction of competing products; • tightening of credit for customers seeking financing for their purchase of our equipment; and • delays in purchasing decisions. If such external factors cause us to offer our products at lower prices and we are unable to mitigate the lower selling prices with lower cost of goods, our gross margins and operating results will likely decline. 10 Table of Contents We have never been able to fund our operations from cash generated by sales of our products, and therefore in the future we may have to meet our working capital requirements through the sale of debt or equity securities to be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred substantial operating losses through December 31, 2008 and may never generate substantial revenue or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have financed our operating losses through the public and private sale of shares of our common stock and preferred stock. If we cannot increase revenue significantly, we may have to obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings in order to continue as a going concern. This may have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock. In the current economic environment, financing for technology and medical device companies has become increasingly difficult to obtain. Any additional financing may not be available in the amount we need or on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of Cambridge Heart by our stockholders would be reduced and the securities issued could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our current stockholders. We believe that our existing resources, and currently projected financials results that include a cost cutting initiative, are sufficient to fund our operations for the next 12 months. Therefore, we will evaluate the need to, and likely may, raise additional capital through public or private financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that such capital would be available at all, or if available, that the terms of such financing would not be dilutive to other stockholders. A critical component of our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels through strategic alliances. If we are unable to establish distribution partnerships or if the timing is slower than expected, our business plan will be adversely impacted. Our strategy is to broaden our distribution channels by establishing alliances with medical device partners and distributors with synergistic attributes. The widespread adoption of our technology may be dependent on establishing and maintaining these strategic relationships. Successfully establishing and managing such relationships may be difficult given the current environment. Furthermore, the financial terms of the relationships will have a direct impact on our operating results. Moreover, when, or if, such partnerships are established, we may have to contend with competing interests of our potential partners and/or distributors. There can be no assurance that such relationships are attainable at all or in terms favorable to us. We may need additional financing for our future capital needs and may not be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We believe that the financial resources available to us, and currently projected financial results that include a cost cutting initiative, will be sufficient to finance our planned operations for the next 12 months. If we are unable to achieve positive cash flow, we will need to raise additional funds. We may also need additional financing sooner if: • we decide to substantially expand our research and development efforts; • we decide to expand our marketing and sales capabilities; • we decide to undertake new sales and/or marketing initiatives; • we are required to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights; • sales of our products do not meet our expectations in the United States or internationally; • we need to respond to competitive pressures; or • we decide to acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. 11 Table of Contents We can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our future needs which would significantly limit our ability to implement our business plan. In addition, we may have to issue securities that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funding when needed, we may have to significantly cut back our operations, sell some or all of our assets, license potentially valuable technologies to third parties and/or cease operations. In addition, if we raise additional capital by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution. We face substantial competition in the market for cardiac diagnostic devices from substantially larger and better financed competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products more successfully than we do. Competition from competitors’ medical devices that diagnose cardiac disease is intense and likely to increase. Our success will depend on our ability to develop product enhancements and applications for technologies, as well as our ability to establish and maintain a market for our products. We compete with manufacturers of electrocardiogram stress tests, the conventional method of diagnosing ischemic heart disease, as well as with manufacturers of other invasive and non-invasive tests, including EP testing, electrocardiograms, Holter monitors, ultrasound tests and systems of measuring cardiac late potentials. GE Medical Systems has introduced an analysis system to measure t-wave alternans. GE Medical Systems has received concurrence from the FDA of its 510(k) allowing it to distribute the product in the United States. We believe if GE can secure the reimbursement for its MTWA methodology with Medicare it will pose a significant risk to the success of our business. See further detail under Competition in Item 1. In addition, many of our current as well as prospective competitors have substantially greater capital resources, name recognition, research and development regulatory, manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Many of these competitors offer broad, well-established product lines and ancillary services not offered by us. Some of our competitors also enjoy long-term or preferential supply arrangements with physicians and hospitals which may act as a barrier to market entry. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. These fluctuations may be due to several factors relating to the sale of our products, including: • the timing of our sales transactions of our MTWA products; • unpredictable sales cycles; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in our operating expenses; • product quality problems; and • personnel changes and fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. There can be no assurance that future revenue and results of operations will not vary substantially. It is also possible that in future quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of investors, analysts or our announced guidance, if any. In any such case, the price of our common stock could materially be affected adversely. 12 Table of Contents The results of future clinical studies may not support the usefulness of our technology. We participate in clinical studies relating to our MTWA technology in order to more firmly establish the predictive value of such technologies. Any clinical study or trial which fail to demonstrate that the measurement of MTWA is at least comparable in accuracy to alternative diagnostic tests, or which otherwise call into question the cost-effectiveness, efficacy or safety of our technology, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We obtain critical components and sub-assemblies for the manufacture of our products from a limited group of suppliers, and if our suppliers fail to meet our requirements we may be unable to meet customer demand and our customer relationships would suffer. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. Our dependence on a single supplier or limited group of smaller suppliers for critical components and sub-assemblies exposes us to several risks, including: • a potential for interruption, or inconsistency in the supply of components or sub-assemblies, leading to backorders and product shortages; • a potential for inconsistent quality of components or sub-assemblies supplied, leading to reduced customer satisfaction or increased product costs and delays in shipments of our products to customers and distributors; and • inconsistent pricing. We can give no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify additional suppliers of critical components and sub-assemblies in a timely manner. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more key components or sub-assemblies included in our products could seriously harm our results of operations. We may have difficulty responding to changing technology. The medical device market is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to anticipate and keep pace with advancing technology and competitive innovations. However, we may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. In addition, we can give no assurance that new products or alternative diagnostic techniques may be developed that will render our current or planned products obsolete or inferior. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred with respect to such products. We depend exclusively on third parties to support the commercialization of our products internationally. We market our products internationally through independent distributors. These distributors also distribute competing products under certain circumstances. The loss of a significant international distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business if a new distributor, sales representative or other suitable sales organization cannot be found on a timely basis in the relevant geographic market. Because we rely on distributors for international sales, any revenues we receive in those territories will depend upon the efforts of our distributors. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that a distributor will market our products successfully or that the terms of any future distribution arrangements will be acceptable to us. In 2008, 16% of our revenue came from the sale of product to international distributors. Risks Related to the Market for Cardiac Diagnostic Equipment If we are not able to both obtain and maintain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for our products, it would have a material adverse affect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our revenue is primarily derived from sales of our Heartwave II Systems and Micro-V Alternans Sensors. Our ability to successfully commercialize these products depends on our first obtaining, and then maintaining, adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for use of these products by our customers. The amount of reimbursement in the U.S. that is available for clinical use of the MTWA Test varies. In the U.S., the cost of medical care is funded, in substantial part, by government insurance programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private and corporate health insurance plans. Third-party payers will seek to deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, investigations unnecessary or inappropriate. In November 2006, CMS issued a ruling that changed the methodology used to calculate all physician reimbursement codes. The change in methodology includes a five year phase in of adjustments to the physician fee schedule which will be fully implemented in 2010. We believe this ruling, if not modified, will result in annual reductions in all categories of reimbursement levels, including diagnostic testing, through the year 2010. Effective January 1, 2009, the Medicare payment for a MTWA test was reduced from $252 in 2008 to $214 in 2009. Any reduction in reimbursement for our MTWA Test may affect the demand for, price of, or utilization of our Heartwave II System and Micro-V Alternans Sensors, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our business. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance in the U.S. and in other countries in which we conduct business, including clinical trials and product marketing and sales, such coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on Cambridge Heart, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our ability to build a successful business depends on our ability to first obtain, and then maintain, patent protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products both in the U.S. and in other countries and then enforce these patents. However, the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We can give no assurance that patents will issue as a result of any patent applications we own or license or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. In addition, any issued patents we own or license may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, and we can give no assurance that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, or disclose such technology or that we can ultimately protect meaningful rights to such unpatented proprietary technologies. Any claim by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights, whether intentionally or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others and/or breaching the licenses upon which our products and technologies are based. We have licensed significant technology and patents from third parties, including patents and technology relating to MTWA licensed from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Our license of patents and patent applications impose various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, royalty and other obligations on our part. If we fail to comply with these requirements, licenses could convert from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or could terminate, either of which would adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Any future litigation over intellectual property rights would likely involve significant expense on our part as well as distract our management from day-to-day business operations. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, which would likely result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us and/or to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. In particular, our competitors and other third parties hold issued patents and are assumed to hold pending patent applications, which may result in claims of infringement against us or other patent litigation. We also may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial cost. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 