Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and information contained in our other SEC filings. The demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of the wireless industry. A marked decline in growth of the wireless industry and/or demand for wireless products in the areas in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends largely upon continued consumer demand for wireless products. While the industry has been experiencing growth, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue, or that we will be able to adjust our business model to capitalize on that growth. The demand for our products and services has fluctuated and may continue to vary substantially within the North American and Latin American Regions. Economic 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements slowdowns in these regions or changes in promotional programs offered by carriers may lower consumer demand and create higher levels of inventories in our distribution channels, resulting in lower than anticipated demand for the products and services that we offer. A prolonged economic slow-down in the United States or the countries served by our Latin American Region could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. A significant portion of our business is in the Latin American Region, which bears additional risks that U.S. companies do not have. During fiscal 2005, approximately 53% of our revenues were generated in our Latin American Region. As with all companies that conduct a significant portion of their operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to various economic and political risks that could negatively impact sales and/or profitability, including but not limited to the following: potentially unstable channels of distribution, increased credit risks, political instability, economic instability, currency controls, currency devaluations, exchange rate fluctuations, export control laws that might limit the markets we can enter, inflation, changes in laws and enforcement policies related to foreign ownership of businesses abroad, foreign tax laws, trade disputes among nations, changes in cost of and access to capital, changes in import/export regulations, including enforcement policies, “gray market” resales and tariff and freight rates. Quality issues with our suppliers’ products could cause delays in receiving products, resulting in shipment delays to our customers. Product manufacturers typically provide limited warranties directly to the end consumer or to us, which we generally pass through to our customers. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, quality issues in the products are discovered after they have been shipped to our distributors or end-user customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue and/or future orders, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our reputation. Shortages of certain high-demand products or components could result in a disruption of our ability to fulfill the orders of our customers. From time to time our suppliers may experience a shortage in certain components needed to manufacture products, or shipments of certain high-demand products may be delayed due to a shortage in the number of products available from the manufacturers. This could result in our not being able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner, potentially resulting in a loss of revenue or damage to our customer relationships. The global wireless industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully in this industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment and believe that such competition will intensify in the future. We compete primarily on the basis of inventory availability and selection, delivery time, service and price. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater capital and management resources than we do. Increasingly, as manufacturers move to a direct-to-retail model, we must adapt our traditional distribution role to remain competitive. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may obtain access to new technologies before we do or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. In addition, potential users of wireless systems may find their communications needs satisfied by other current and developing technologies. Our ability to remain competitive will therefore depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt our business to such technological changes and our ability to achieve significant penetration in existing and new geographic markets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and adapting to such technological changes. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the positive impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. For the years ended November 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 we incurred net losses of $24.6 million, $118.1 million and $38.9 million, respectively. The net losses in 2005 and 2004 include losses of $17.3 million and $81.1 million related to discontinued operations. We have been exiting unprofitable operations and reducing costs. In 2005, we divested our operations in the Asia-Pacific Region. In January 2006 we consolidated our Corporate and U.S. Region headquarters in an attempt to further reduce costs. We have eliminated certain employee positions and/or left some positions unfilled. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including but not limited to: (1) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (2) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect and/or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (3) our ability to retain or recruit key employees; and (4) our ability to manage our business and perform essential functions with reduced staff. We may not be able to access capital under our existing debt facilities. We have an $85.0 million revolving credit facility with a bank, (the “Revolving Credit Facility” or “Facility”). The Facility is considered a current liability as the lender has dominion over cash receipts related to the Company’s domestic operations and the Facility contains an acceleration clause that the lenders could choose to invoke if the Company were to commit an event of default. The Facility is secured by a pledge of 100% of the outstanding stock of all U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the outstanding stock of all first tier foreign subsidiaries as defined by the Facility. The Facility is further secured by the Company’s domestic accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment and all other domestic real property and intangible assets. The Facility contains, among other provisions, certain covenants relating to the maintenance of certain financial ratios, and restrictions on dividend payments, entering into additional debt, mergers and acquisitions and disposition of assets. If we violate these covenants, our indebtedness would become immediately due and payable, and the bank could foreclose on its security. During fiscal 2005, we were able to obtain amendments, consents and waivers to the Facility in order to remain compliant with the loan covenants. We cannot assure you that such waivers and modifications will be obtained for any future non-compliance that may occur. Non-compliance with certain covenants could hinder our ability to access capital under the Facility in the future. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. At November 30, 2005, the Company had net deferred income tax assets, net of valuation allowances, of $7.4 million, a significant portion of which relates to net operating loss carryforwards. The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences are deductible. The most significant factor considered in determining the realizability of the deferred tax asset was projected profitability, including taxable income generated from tax planning strategies, over the next three to five years. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, the Company would be unable to use these assets. In addition, the amount of the deferred income tax asset considered realizable could change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the relevant carry-forward period change or if the number of years is being considered for these projections change. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions in emerging markets, such as those served by our Latin American Region. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. The Company has made significant investments in technology to improve financial and information systems. Our ability to meet our customers’ technical and performance requirements is highly dependent on the effective functioning of our information technology systems. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. We reported losses of $38.9 million, $118.1 million and $24.6 million in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In addition, due to the Company’s inability to timely file its Form 10-K for fiscal 2004 and Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2005, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market effective with the open of business on June 10, 2005. As a result of the delisting, our common stock is currently traded on the over-the-counter market, and is quoted in the Pink Sheets®, which provides electronic quotation information. We believe our recent losses, combined with the uncertainty surrounding our business during the delay in filing the 2004 Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2005, and the delisting of our stock, have contributed significantly to the decline in our share price during 2005. Our share price is subject to general volatility in the securities markets, and volatility in the telecommunications and technology securities markets in particular. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, has required us to expend significant resources and incur additional expenses. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we will continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers could materially adversely affect our business. Many of our customers have experienced severe price competition and for this and other reasons may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to provide these customers in the past. There are several customers that we consider key to our business. The loss of any of these key customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our key customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We do not maintain agreements with the majority of our customers, which subjects us to further risk that such relationships could be terminated at any time. There can be no assurance that any of our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. Our business may be adversely impacted by continued consolidation in the wireless market. In 2005, the U.S. wireless market saw further consolidation, continuing the trend from fiscal 2004. As nationwide carriers get larger and gain market share, smaller wireless carriers are fighting to remain competitive. This smaller, regional carrier segment represented a significant amount of the Company’s revenues in the North 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements American Region in 2005. Further consolidation in the regional carrier segment could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. In addition, lock\line LLC., a significant customer in our insurance replacement business representing 12% of consolidated revenues, completed its merger with Asurion Corporation effective January 1, 2006. Asurion performs its own return and replacement process in-house. While the Company believes that it will continue to provide services to lock/line for the foreseeable future, at this time, we cannot estimate the long-term impact of this merger on our future results. A change in the ownership or management of our customers could result in the loss or reduction of business with that customer, which could adversely affect our revenue stream and results of operations. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers to supply our products who may not provide us with competitive products at reasonable prices when we need them in the future, or with adequate financing to secure such products. Our business depends upon several factors, one of which is our relationship with Motorola, the Company’s largest supplier and historically one of the largest manufacturers of wireless products in the world. The loss of Motorola or any other significant vendor, a substantial price increase or decrease imposed by any vendor, a shortage or oversupply of product available from our vendors or further tightening of credit terms by our vendors could have a material adverse impact on the Company. We are dependent on maintaining open vendor trade credit lines on reasonable terms. Interruption of these lines could have a material adverse impact, and could well determine whether or not the Company can continue as a going concern. Due to the delay in filing our 2004 Form 10-K and our consolidated operating loss in 2004, the Company experienced some tightening of credit with our vendors, including Motorola, during 2005. We believe that the tightening of credit restricted growth during 2005. We cannot assure you that product shortages, product surpluses or renewed tightening of trade credit terms will not occur in the future. Weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our financial statements and our operations. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005, our management identified certain control deficiencies, resulting in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Management is planning appropriate steps to remediate these material weaknesses, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to address the material weaknesses in a timely manner. Insufficient internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements in our financial statements that could be material and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. In addition, projections of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We may incur losses if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable. Accounts receivable management is important to the Company’s liquidity. The Company uses credit management tools, which include credit scoring services in the Company’s North American and Miami operations, to manage its accounts receivable exposure. In Latin America, we sell primarily to large well-established carrier customers and have significant receivables from these carriers. Several factors can affect the collection of our accounts receivable, including, but not limited to, the financial health of the customer, industry and economic conditions, our policies related to extending credit, contractual provisions, and the ability of the customer to provide security, collateral or guarantees relative to credit granted by us. Adverse changes in any of these factors, some of which may not be wholly within our control, could create delays in collecting or an inability to collect our accounts receivable which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our future operating results will depend on our ability to maintain or improve operating margins. The Company’s primary source of revenue is the sale of wireless products. This area of our business generally has low margins. Our ability to be successful in the future will depend upon our ability to maintain or improve our operating margins. Gross margins could be negatively affected by increased competition or a growing industry emphasis on cost containment. We may not be able to improve our current operating margins for products or services offered or increase our sales. Even if our sales volumes increase, the gross margins that we receive from our sales may not be sufficient to make our future operations profitable. Rapid technological changes in the global wireless industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for wireless products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate and adapt our business to such technological changes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, obtain and offer products necessary to remain competitive or that competitors or manufacturers of wireless communications products will not market products that have perceived advantages over our inventories or that render the products we sell obsolete or less marketable. We maintain a significant investment in our product inventory and, therefore, are subject to the risks of inventory obsolescence and excessive inventory levels. Unforeseen events could disrupt our operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to minimize the effect of an interruption in our business due to an unforeseen event such as a natural disaster, outbreak of hostilities or terrorist attack, we cannot assure you that our operations would not be adversely affected by such events if they occur. Our operating results could vary significantly due to fluctuations in promotional and/or purchasing patterns. Our overall operating results may be influenced by a number of factors in the different countries and markets in which we operate. These factors may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations are a result of several factors, including, but not limited to: • promotions and subsidies by wireless carriers; • the timing of the introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; • purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; • general economic, social and political conditions; and • product availability and pricing. The occurrence of an unanticipated event, such as a delay in securing adequate inventories of competitive products at times of peak sales or a significant decrease in sales during these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Interim results may not be indicative of annual results. Our continued growth depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers and key employees, we may not be able to retain their services. We do not maintain key man insurance on the life of any officer of the Company. The loss or interruption of the continued full-time service of the Company’s executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The success of our operations also depends on our ability to effectively recruit, develop and retain qualified individuals. During fiscal 2005, we believe the issues in the PRC and the related delay in filing our financial statements impacted our employee relations. Employee turnover increased and employee morale suffered, and such issues could hamper our ability to hire qualified personnel in the future. We have securities related to awards granted pursuant to our CellStar Corporation 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and our 1993 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, which, if issued, could potentially result in dilution to existing shareholders and an increase in compensation expense. We have reserved a significant number of shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of outstanding stock options, or as restricted stock awards granted pursuant to these plans. Effective in the quarterly period ending February 28, 2006, as required under recently issued accounting pronouncement Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123R”), the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions will be recognized in financial statements. Although we do not expect this change in accounting treatment to have a material effect on earnings per share in 2006, this requirement could have a negative impact on our operating results in future periods Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 