Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and information contained in our other SEC filings. Our business could be subject to increased risk if we do not obtain stockholder approval of the U.S. Sale and the Mexico Sale. We filed a preliminary proxy statement on January 23, 2007 describing our proposals to sell substantially all of our assets in the U.S. and Miami operations to Brightpoint, and our operations in Mexico to Wireless Solutions and Prestadora. In addition, we proposed a plan of dissolution for the Company. If the proposals are not approved, our business could be materially adversely affected as described below. If our stockholders approve the U.S. Sale Agreement but do not approve the Mexico Sale Agreement, we do not believe that operating Mexico by itself is a viable alternative because the Mexico operations alone would not provide us with adequate scope and scale to remain a major distributor, we would have financial difficulty remaining a publicly traded entity, given the costs of compliance with SEC and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), and we would be operating in only one region with significant customer concentration, thereby increasing the adverse impact of the loss of any of those customers. Therefore, we would either need to find another acceptable sale transaction for Mexico, or liquidate those assets and distribute any remaining proceeds to stockholders, assuming the plan of dissolution is approved by stockholders at the stockholders meeting. Alternatively, we could use the proceeds from the U.S. Sale to pay off existing debt and then begin to look to acquire additional profitable businesses. We cannot assure you that we would be able to consummate such acquisitions. Management and our board of directors also believe that it may be necessary to immediately reduce corporate overhead and institute cost cutting measures throughout the remaining business. The board and management believe that we may need to deregister our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), reduce corporate staff, and take additional cost cutting measures to “right size” the remaining operations. We cannot assure you that these actions would be sufficient to allow us to continue to operate as a going concern without the U.S. and Miami operations. If our stockholders approve the Mexico Sale Agreement but do not approve the U.S. Sale Agreement, we would continue to operate our remaining businesses, but we would face many challenges such as the continued weakness of our balance sheet and our inability to expend or attract significant amounts of capital in order to grow our business, our significant dependency on vendor credit lines and the ability to factor receivables for working capital needs, increasing competitive pressures resulting from the continued consolidation of our customer base, and management’s belief that these pressures were likely to continue to increase due to the likelihood of further consolidation in the wireless industry, and other challenges. To close the Mexico Sale without the proceeds from the U.S. Sale, we would be required to obtain acceptable consents from our lenders. We cannot assure you that such consents could be obtained. If consents on acceptable terms were obtained, management believes that it may have to use the proceeds from the Mexico Sale to pay down some of its existing debt, which would reduce interest expense going forward; 13 however, we would lose the on-going income stream from the Mexico operations. This would also result in a greater concentration of our revenues from a smaller group of customers in only two regions, thereby increasing the adverse impact of the loss of any of those customers. We believe that it would require additional capital in order to (i) acquire complementary businesses as necessary to obtain the required scope and scale to maintain our position as a major distributor and logistics provider and necessary for us to remain competitive in our industry, and (ii) make necessary investments in our business, particularly in IT systems, to allow our distribution business to better compete. We believe that obtaining additional capital could be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to obtain such additional capital on satisfactory terms, if at all. There can also be no assurance that the Company would be able to consummate such complementary acquisitions. Management and the board of directors believe that it may also be necessary to immediately reduce the costs associated with being a public company by deregistering our common stock under the Exchange Act, thereby eliminating our obligations to file most of the reports we are currently required to file with the SEC and reducing corporate overhead. In the event our stockholders do not approve either the U. S. Sale Agreement or the Mexico Sale Agreement, we will be left with the challenges to its business described above. We believe that it would require additional capital in order to (i) acquire complementary businesses as necessary to obtain the required scope and scale to maintain our position as a major distributor and logistics provider and necessary for us to remain competitive in our industry, and (ii) make necessary investments in its business, particularly in IT systems, to allow our distribution business to better compete. We believe that obtaining additional capital could be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such additional capital on satisfactory terms, if at all. There can also be no assurance that we would be able to consummate such complementary acquisitions. Management and the board of directors believe that it may also be necessary to immediately reduce the costs of being a public company by deregistering our common stock under the Exchange Act. The loss of any of our key customers, or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers have experienced severe price competition and for this and other reasons may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to provide these customers in the past. Our customer base is concentrated in a few key customers. In early 2006, lock/line LLC, the largest customer in the North American Region, completed its merger with Asurion Corporation, and in April 2006 Asurion took in-house the majority of the business previously performed by the Company. In 2005, lock/line accounted for $115.0 million of revenues. In 2006, revenues from lock/line decreased to $50.5 million, of which only $5.8 million occurred in the second half of 2006. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006, Dobson accounted for approximately 20% of our total U.S. revenues, Telefonica accounted for approximately 59% of our total Miami revenues, Telcel and Telcel related customers accounted for 76% of our total Mexico revenues, and one customer accounted for 95% of our total Chile revenues. As a result, we remain vulnerable to a significant and dramatic loss of revenues in the event we should lose any additional major customer. The loss of any of these key customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our key customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We do not maintain agreements with the majority of our customers, which subjects us to further risk that such relationships could be terminated at any time. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. The demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of the wireless industry. A marked decline in growth of the wireless industry and/or demand for wireless products in the areas in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends largely upon continued consumer demand for wireless products. While the industry has been experiencing growth, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue, or that we will be able to adjust our business model to capitalize on that growth. The demand for our products and services has fluctuated and may continue to vary substantially within the North American and Latin American Regions. 14 Economic slowdowns in these regions or changes in promotional programs offered by carriers may lower consumer demand and create higher levels of inventories in our distribution channels, resulting in lower than anticipated demand for the products and services that we offer. A prolonged economic slow-down in the United States or the countries served by our Latin American Region could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. A significant portion of our business is in the Latin American Region, which bears additional risks that U.S- based businesses do not have. During fiscal 2006, approximately 57% of our revenues were generated in our Latin American Region. As with all companies that conduct a significant portion of their operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to various economic and political risks that could negatively impact sales and/or profitability, including but not limited to the following: potentially unstable channels of distribution, increased credit risks, political instability, economic instability, currency controls, currency devaluations, exchange rate fluctuations, export control laws that might limit the markets we can enter, inflation, changes in laws and enforcement policies related to foreign ownership of businesses abroad, foreign tax laws, trade disputes among nations, changes in cost of and access to capital, changes in import/export regulations, including enforcement policies, “gray market” resales and tariff and freight rates. Quality issues with our suppliers’ products could cause delays in receiving products, resulting in shipment delays to our customers. Product manufacturers typically provide limited warranties directly to the end consumer or to us, which we generally pass through to our customers. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, quality issues in the products are discovered after they have been shipped to our distributors or end-user customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue and/or future orders, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our reputation. Shortages of certain high-demand products or components could result in a disruption of our ability to fulfill the orders of our customers. From time to time our suppliers may experience a shortage in certain components needed to manufacture products, or shipments of certain high-demand products may be delayed due to a shortage in the number of products available from the manufacturers. This could result in our not being able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner, potentially resulting in a loss of revenue or damage to our customer relationships. The global wireless industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully in this industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment and believe that such competition will intensify in the future. We compete primarily on the basis of inventory availability and selection, price, delivery time and service. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater capital and management resources than we do. Increasingly, we believe manufacturers will move to a direct-to-retail model. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may obtain access to new technologies before we do or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. In addition, potential users of wireless systems may find their communications needs satisfied by other current and developing technologies. Our ability to remain competitive will therefore depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt our business to such technological changes and our ability to achieve significant penetration in existing and new geographic markets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and adapting to such technological changes. 15 We have taken cost-reduction actions in an attempt to increase our profitability. In addition, if either or both the U.S. Sale and Mexico Sale do not receive the approval of our stockholders, we will have to take further cost reduction actions. We have taken cost-reduction actions during fiscal 2006, including consolidating our Corporate and U.S. Region headquarters in January and eliminating employee positions and/or leaving some positions unfilled. If either or both the U.S. Sale and Mexico Sale do not receive the approval of our stockholders, we may have to take further cost-reduction actions in order to continue to operate our business. These cost-reduction actions may include deregistering under the Securities Act or reducing corporate staff and other employees. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including but not limited to: (1) our ability to successfully complete these cost-reduction actions; (2) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect and/or that are necessary to enable us to maintain ongoing operations; (3) our ability to retain key employees; and (4) our ability to manage our business and perform essential functions with reduced staff. We may not be able to access capital under our existing debt facilities. We have an $85.0 million revolving credit Amended Facility. The Amended Facility is considered a current liability as the lender has dominion over cash receipts related to the Company’s domestic operations and the Amended Facility contains an acceleration clause that the lenders could choose to invoke if the Company were to commit an event of default. The Amended Facility is secured by a pledge of 100% of the outstanding stock of all U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the outstanding stock of all first tier foreign subsidiaries as defined by the Amended Facility. The Amended Facility is further secured by the Company’s domestic accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment and all other domestic real property and intangible assets. The Amended Facility contains, among other provisions, covenants relating to the maintenance of certain financial ratios, and restrictions on dividend payments, entering into additional debt, mergers and acquisitions and disposition of assets. If we violate these covenants, our indebtedness would become immediately due and payable, and the bank could foreclose on its security. We have similar restrictions and penalties with respect to the Term Loan with CapitalSource. During fiscal 2006, we were able to obtain amendments, consents and waivers to the Amended Facility and the Term Loan in order to remain compliant with the loan covenants. We cannot assure you that such waivers and modifications will be obtained for any future non-compliance that may occur. Non-compliance with certain covenants could hinder our ability to access capital under the Amended Facility in the future and could cause us to default under either the Amended Facility or the Term Loan. The approval of the U.S. and Mexico Agreements will result in the payoff of the Amended Facility and the Term Loan. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. At November 30, 2006, the Company had net deferred income tax assets, net of valuation allowances, of $7.6 million, a significant portion of which relates to net operating loss carryforwards. The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences are deductible. The most significant factor considered in determining the realizability of the deferred tax asset was projected profitability, including taxable income generated from tax planning strategies, over the next three to five years. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, the Company would be unable to use these assets. In addition, the amount of the deferred income tax asset considered realizable could change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the relevant carry-forward period change or if the number of years is being considered for these projections change. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions in emerging markets, such as those served by our Latin American Region. 16 We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. The Company has made significant investments in technology to improve financial and information systems, however, future capital expenditures are needed in order to properly maintain and update these systems. Our ability to meet our customers’ technical and performance requirements is highly dependent on the effective functioning of our information technology systems. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, further cost cutting measures could result in our systems not performing up to market standards or could severely reduce our ability to obtain new customers. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. In the proxy statement filed with the SEC on January 23, 2007, we provided an estimated distribution range to our stockholders upon the closing of the U.S. and Mexico Sales. We believe it is unlikely that the stock price will exceed the high end of the distribution range for the foreseeable future, and could decrease further once the transactions close. Our common stock is currently traded on the over-the-counter market, and is quoted in the Pink Sheets®, which provides electronic quotation information. Our share price is subject to general volatility in the securities markets, and volatility in the telecommunications and technology securities markets in particular. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, has required us to expend significant resources and incur additional expenses. As described above, if the U.S. and Mexico Sales are not approved, our board and management believe that we may need to deregister our common stock under the Exchange Act, thereby eliminating our obligations to file most of the reports we are currently required to file with the SEC. Our business may be adversely impacted by continued consolidation in the wireless market. In 2006, the U.S. wireless market saw continued consolidation, with larger carriers acquiring smaller carriers. As nationwide carriers get larger and gain market share, smaller wireless carriers are fighting to remain competitive. These trends may also lead to financial instability for some of our regional carrier customers. This smaller, regional carrier segment represented 67% of the Company’s revenues in the North American Region in 2006. Further consolidation in the regional carrier segment could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. A change in the ownership or management of our customers could result in the loss or reduction of business with that customer, which could adversely affect our revenue stream and results of operations. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers to supply our products who may not provide us with competitive products at reasonable prices when we need them in the future, or with adequate financing to secure such products. Our business depends upon several factors, one of which is our relationship with Motorola, the Company’s largest supplier and historically one of the largest manufacturers of wireless products in the world. 65% of our product purchases in fiscal 2006 were from Motorola. The loss of Motorola or any other significant vendor, a substantial price increase or decrease imposed by any vendor, a shortage or oversupply of product available from our vendors or tightening of credit terms by our vendors could have a material adverse impact on the Company. We are dependent on maintaining open vendor trade credit lines on reasonable terms. Interruption of these lines could have a material adverse impact, and could well determine whether or not the Company can continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that product shortages, product surpluses or renewed tightening of trade credit terms will not occur in the future. 17 Weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our financial statements and our operations. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005, our management identified certain control deficiencies, resulting in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although management determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at November 30, 2006, projections of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Insufficient internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements in our financial statements that could be material and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We may incur losses if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable. Accounts receivable management is important to the Company’s liquidity. The Company uses credit management tools, which include credit scoring services in the Company’s North American and Miami operations, to manage its accounts receivable exposure. In Latin America, we sell primarily to large well-established carrier customers and have significant receivables from these carriers. Several factors can affect the collection of our accounts receivable, including, but not limited to, the financial health of the customer, industry and economic conditions, our policies related to extending credit, contractual provisions, and the ability of the customer to provide security, collateral or guarantees relative to credit granted by us. Adverse changes in any of these factors, some of which may not be wholly within our control, could create delays in collecting or an inability to collect our accounts receivable which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to maintain or improve operating margins. The Company’s primary source of revenue is the sale of wireless products. This area of our business generally has low margins. Our ability to be successful will depend upon our ability to maintain or improve our operating margins. Gross margins could be negatively affected by increased competition or a growing industry emphasis on cost containment. We may not be able to improve our current operating margins for products or services offered or increase our sales. Even if our sales volumes increase, the gross margins that we receive from our sales may not be sufficient to make our operations profitable. Rapid technological changes in the global wireless industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for wireless products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate and adapt our business to such technological changes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, obtain and offer products necessary to remain competitive or that competitors or manufacturers of wireless communications products will not market products that have perceived advantages over our inventories or that render the products we sell obsolete or less marketable. We maintain a significant investment in our product inventory and, therefore, are subject to the risks of inventory obsolescence and excessive inventory levels. Unforeseen events could disrupt our operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to minimize the effect of an interruption in our business due to an unforeseen event such as a natural disaster, outbreak of hostilities or terrorist attack, we cannot assure you that our operations would not be adversely affected by such events if they occur. 18 Our operating results could vary significantly due to fluctuations in promotional and/or purchasing patterns. Our overall operating results may be influenced by a number of factors in the different countries and markets in which we operate. These factors may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations are a result of several factors, including, but not limited to: · promotions and subsidies by wireless carriers; · the timing of the introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; · purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; · the timing of the receipt of vendor credits; · general economic, social and political conditions; and · product availability and pricing. The occurrence of an unanticipated event, such as a delay in securing adequate inventories of competitive products at times of peak sales or a significant decrease in sales during these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Interim results may not be indicative of annual results. Our business depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers and key employees, we may not be able to retain their services. We do not maintain key man insurance on the life of any officer of the Company. The loss or interruption of the continued full-time service of the Company’s executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business. The success of our operations also depends on our ability to effectively recruit, develop and retain qualified individuals. If our stockholders do not approve the proposed U.S. Sale and Mexico Sale, we believe that retaining our existing employees and attracting new employees will be difficult, and could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 