Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and information contained in our other SEC filings. On February 20, 2007, we filed a proxy statement with the SEC recommending that stockholders approve, among other proposals, the U.S. Sale, the Mexico Sale, and a plan of liquidation and dissolution for the Company (the "Plan"). On March 28, 2007, our stockholders approved these proposals, and the U.S. Sale closed on March 30, 2007 and the Mexico Sale closed on April 12, 2007. Also on June 11, 2007, we sold our Chile operations and now have no revenue generating operations. Prior to the closing of the U.S. Sale, the Mexico Sale and the Chile Sale, our operating performance was subject to a variety of risks, which are more fully described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006, and our proxy statement filed on February 20, 4 2007. As a result of the transactions described above, our risk factors have materially changed and should reflect the following: The Board of Directors, in its fiduciary capacity, is considering not implementing the Company's plan of liquidation and dissolution, which will likely affect whether stockholders receive distributions pursuant to the plan. The Plan provided for the complete liquidation and dissolution of the Company after the completion of the U.S. Sale, but subject to the ability of the Board of Directors to abandon the Plan if it deems appropriate. Consistent with its fiduciary duties, the Board of Directors is now giving careful consideration to the strategic alternatives available to the Company, with a view to maximizing stockholder value. Among other matters, the Board of Directors is reviewing potential acquisitions and the value of the Company's tax assets. If the Board determines that it is in the best interest of the Company to pursue an acquisition, it will likely require the Company to obtain debt and/or equity financing. Even if we obtain access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. It is unlikely the Board of Directors will make any further distributions to the Company's stockholders under the Plan while it considers the strategic alternatives available to the Company. It is possible that the Board of Directors will, in the exercise of its fiduciary duty, elect to abandon the Plan for a strategic alternative that it believes will maximize stockholder value, and that no further liquidating distributions will be made. Because the Company has been in the process of liquidating its business, it is difficult to secure and retain qualified employees. During the last three quarters of fiscal year 2007, the Company began reducing its employee base, consistent with the Company's plan to liquidate and dissolve. However, the Company still requires the service of some employees for handling routine business matters. Retaining employees who are knowledgeable of the Company's business and background has proven to be difficult while the Company has been winding down its business. Furthermore, it is difficult to hire and train new employees when the Company is already working with a reduced staff, and new employees may see little incentive in working for a Company without operations. We are experiencing significant risks related to information technology. Although the Company has outsourced certain information technology ("IT") functions, the Company currently has no employees who are qualified to perform IT services for the Company, nor does the Company have any plans to hire IT employees. Therefore, maintaining the Company's website and other IT-related information has proven to be difficult, and there is a risk that such information may not be adequately maintained. Furthermore, during the period following the U.S. sale, email backup tapes were not properly protected, and as a result historical email detail is limited. The Company has had difficulties restoring email records from Brightpoint when the Company has requested such information. Without access to these emails, the Company may not have complete historical email records. These risks may adversely impact the Company's internal control environment. We will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We will be required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for our 2008 fiscal year. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine on those internal controls and management's assessment of those controls. We have hired an outside consultant 5 to work with management in assessing our internal controls. During the course of our ongoing evaluation and integration of the internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management's attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our profitability could be affected. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 for our 2008 fiscal year or that we or our auditors will not identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report such material weakness, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be negatively affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could negatively impact our business, profitability and financial condition. Our common stock trades at low prices and low volumes and may be subject to certain fraud and abuse in the market. Our common stock trades at low prices and relatively low volumes and is not listed on an exchange. As such, the market for common stock such as ours may be subject to certain patterns of fraud and abuse, similar to common stock that is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission's "penny stock" rule, including: •control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; •manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; •"boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; •excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and •the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our common stock. We are subject to the risks of interest rate fluctuation. Our net interest income is affected by changes in market interest rates and other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rates for demand deposits and other short term cash investments in the U.S. have dropped significantly in the past year. The Company's assets consist largely of cash. As a result, declines in such interest rates will reduce the Company's income and directly and adversely affect the Company's budget. 6 The Company has had difficulty collecting money it is due from some purchasers of its operations. We are owed amounts from the sales of our non-U.S. operations. Collection proceedings outside of the U.S. tend to be cumbersome and expensive. We believe we are owed as much as $1.8 million from the sales of our non-U.S. operations; however, due to the difficulties of collecting monies from foreign businesses, we believe that it is more likely that we could collect within the range of $500,000 to $1 million. The cost of collecting any amounts from these foreign businesses that we believe we are owed may be significant and may exceed the value of the amount at issue. Our stock is thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all. The shares of our common stock are traded on the Pink Sheets. Shares of our common stock are thinly-traded, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including: •we have reclassified to discontinued operations; and •stock analysts, stock brokers and institutional investors may be risk-averse and be reluctant to follow a company that has no operations, such as ours, or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares as long as we continue to have no operations. As a consequence, our stock price may not reflect an actual or perceived value. Also, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. A broader or more active public trading market for our common shares may not develop or if developed, may not be sustained. Due to these conditions, you may not be able to sell your shares at or near ask prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 