Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- An investment in our common stock involves risks. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could harm our business and financial results and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose all or part of their investment in us. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. We Have Undergone Significant Organizational Restructuring And We Face Substantial Operational Challenges In Our Terrestrial Wireless Business. We have been forced to take material actions to reduce operating costs in our terrestrial wireless business. The elimination of certain sales and other personnel may have a negative effect on our future revenues and growth prospects and our ability to support new product initiatives and generate customer demand. In addition, over the course of 2004 we removed unneeded capacity across the network by deconstructing under-utilized and un-profitable base stations. In 2005, Motient reduced the size of its DataTac network to focus primarily on the top 40 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs). Motient has been faced with the loss of certain FCC licenses in those decommissioned areas. Motient anticipates that if it is not able to sell, lease or otherwise monetize these frequencies promptly, it may be forced to return the underlying licenses to the FCC. We have discussed these changes to our network with many of our customers to assist them in evaluating the potential impact, if any, to their respective communications requirements. These reductions in network capacity and coverage may have a negative effect on our future revenues and growth prospects. - 17 - We Are Not Cash Flow Positive, And We Will Need Additional Liquidity To Fund Our Operations And Fully Fund All Of The Necessary TerreStar Capital Expenditures. We do not generate sufficient cash from operations to cover our operating expenses, and it is unclear when, or if, we will be able to do so. Even if we begin to generate cash in excess of our operating expenses, we expect to require additional funds to meet capital expenditures and other non-operating cash expenses, including but not limited to capital expenditures required to complete and launch TerreStar's satellite currently under construction. We currently anticipate that the funding requirements of Motient (including TerreStar) for the next 12 months should be met through a combination of various sources, including: o cash on hand, o cash from a rights offering announced in December 2004, and, o cash from the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. There can be no assurance that the foregoing sources of liquidity will provide sufficient funds in the amounts or at the time that funding is required. TerreStar will seek to raise additional financing in 2006 to fund its operating and capital expenditure requirements. If it is not successful in raising additional financing, it may have to curtail or delay certain initiatives until such financing is secured. There can be no assurance that we will be able to provide this funding when necessary. In addition, if our ability to realize such liquidity from any such source is delayed or the proceeds from any such source are insufficient to meet our expenditure requirements as they arise, we will seek additional equity or debt financing, although such additional financing may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We Will Continue To Incur Significant Losses. If we do not become profitable, we could have difficulty obtaining funds to continue our operations. We have incurred net losses every year since we began operations. These losses are due to the costs of developing and building our network and the costs of developing, selling and providing products and services. Although we have significantly reduced our losses, we will continue to have losses in the future. We May Not Be Able To Realize Value From Our Investment In TerreStar Or MSV Due To Risks Associated With Their Next-Generation Business Plans. - 18 - The business plans of both TerreStar and MSV involve the development of a next-generation network that combines satellite services with ancillary terrestrial components, or ATC, which is novel and without established precedent. Other than satellite radio providers, neither TerreStar, MSV nor any other company has developed an integrated hybrid network combining satellite services with ATC, and their success will depend on several factors, including: the ultimate resolution of pending legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to TerreStar's S-band and MSV's L-band license authorizations. o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to effectively make use of spectrum; o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to structure partnerships to fund its next generation system consistent with various regulations governing ownership and operation of satellite assets and regulations concerning the utilization of ATC; o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to coordinate with other satellite system operators to optimize both its overall spectrum access and the utility of its spectrum for certain wireless protocols; o whether the price paid for spectrum in prior transactions is indicative of the future value of TerreStar's and MSV's spectrum assets and TerreStar's and MSV's ability to effect transactions that realize the value of such spectrum assets; o the supply of available wireless spectrum in the marketplace; o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to develop and integrate the complex technologies associated with its next-generation system as well as appropriately and effectively manage interference; o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to develop and deploy innovative network management techniques to permit mobile devices to seamlessly transition between satellite and terrestrial mode; o the construction, delivery and launch of TerreStar's and MSV's next-generation satellites and the maintenance of MSV's existing geostationary satellites; o TerreStar's and MSV's ability to obtain funding for the construction of the satellite component of its next-generation service on favorable terms; o TerreStar's and MSV's dependence on one or more third party partners to construct the terrestrial base station component of its next-generation network, if it does not obtain other funding for this construction; - 19 - o market acceptance and level of demand for TerreStar's and MSV's next-generation network; and o protection of MSV's proprietary information and intellectual property rights, and the protection of TerreStar's license to such information and rights. If MSV or TerreStar is unable to implement its next-generation business strategy, our investments in MSV and TerreStar could be materially and adversely affected. We May Not Be Able To Effectively Execute TerreStar's Business Plan. As the majority shareholder of TerreStar, Motient will have the ability and obligation to ensure that TerreStar can successfully execute its business plan. We have not been a majority shareholder in a satellite communications company since we sold MSV in November 2001. Accordingly, Motient has limited experience in running a satellite communications business. In addition, TerreStar's business plan (and the ultimate value of its assets) depends on the successful deployment of an ancillary terrestrial component to its satellite network. If Motient is unable to retain personnel with sufficient expertise in such matters, Motient may be unable to execute the business plan of TerreStar. If Motient is unable to execute TerreStar's business plan for this or any other reason, the value of our investment in TerreStar will be negatively impacted. Funding Requirements For TerreStar May Jeopardize Our Investment In, And Control Over, TerreStar. The implementation of TerreStar's business plan, including the construction and launch of a satellite system and the necessary terrestrial components of an ATC-based communications system, will require significant additional funding. If Motient is unable or unwilling to provide such funding to TerreStar, then TerreStar may be forced to seek funding from third parties that may dilute Motient's equity investment in TerreStar. Such dilution, if sufficiently severe, may limit Motient's control over TerreStar. We Could Lose Market Share And Revenues As A Result Of Increasing Competition From Companies In The Wireless Communications Industry That Have Greater Resources, Name Recognition And Newer Technologies. We face intense competition in all of our markets, which could result in continuing losses of customers and lower revenues and could make it more difficult for us to enter new markets. Our competitors include service providers in several markets -- dedicated mobile data, personal communications service or PCS, narrowband PCS/enhanced paging and emerging technology platforms. The growth in wireless data opportunities has led traditional hardware manufacturers and software developers to invest in technologies that will allow the migration of core products and services to a mobile environment. - 20 - We Generate A Large Part Of Our Revenues And Cash Flows From A Small Number Of Customers On Our DataTac Network, And The Loss Of One Or More Key Customers Could Result In A Significant Reduction In Revenues And Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2005, one customer, SkyTel, accounted for approximately 21% of Motient's service revenue, no other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our service revenue. None of these significant customers is obligated to purchase any minimum quantity of airtime, service or hardware from us. There can be no assurance that the revenue generated from our largest customers will continue in future periods. We may lose certain revenues from major customers due to churn, migration to alternative technologies or the impact of our recent network rationalization efforts. The loss of one or more of our key customers, a material reduction in such customers' use of our network, or any other event, occurrence or development which adversely affects our relationship with one or more of these customers, could harm our business by reducing revenue and reducing net cash flow from operations. The Value Of Our Intangible Assets In Our Financial Statements Is Based On Assumptions And Estimates, Which May Not Be Correct. The valuation of our intangible assets is based on various assumptions and other considerations, including the assumptions and estimates related to future periods that we used to determined these values. Although we have attempted to be as accurate as possible in making and applying the assumptions and estimates used in the valuation of our intangible assets, including but not limited to those outlined herein, we can provide no assurances that these assumptions and estimates for future periods will ultimately be proven correct. Our actual operating results for future periods may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates for future periods, which may cause the actual value of these assets to be materially different than our estimates. We will test these assets in the future for impairment, which may result in the book value of these assets to decrease. We May Not Be Able To Develop, Acquire And Maintain Proprietary Information And Intellectual Property Rights, Which Could Limit The Growth Of Our Business And Reduce Our Market Share. Our terrestrial and satellite wireless communications business depends on technical knowledge, and we believe that our future success is based, in part, on our ability to keep up with new technological developments and incorporate them in our products and services. We own or have the right to use certain of our work products, inventions, designs, software, systems and similar know-how. While we have taken steps to diligently protect that information, there is no assurance that the information will not be disclosed to others or that others will not independently develop similar information, systems and know-how. Protection of our information, systems and know-how may result in litigation, the cost of which could be substantial. There is also no assurance that third parties will not assert claims that our products or services infringe on their proprietary rights. - 21 - We also rely on some technologies licensed from third parties, including but not limited to the intellectual property related to ancillary terrestrial component from MSV. We cannot be sure that these licenses will remain available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of these technologies could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, which could harm our business. Government Regulation May Increase Our Cost Of Providing Services, Slow Our Expansion Into New Markets, Subject Our Services To Additional Competitive Pressures And Affect The Value Of Our Common Stock. Motient's ownership and operation of wireless communication systems are subject to significant regulation by the FCC under authority granted by the Communications Act of 1934 and related federal laws. There is no assurance that the rules and regulations of the FCC will continue to support our operations as presently conducted, in the case of our DataTac network, or as we plan to conduct such operations, in the case of TerreStar. Motient's 800 MHz licenses are subject to renewal by the FCC, and we cannot guarantee that all such licenses will be renewed and that the requisite frequencies will be coordinated. Moreover, the recent changes to our wireless network, specifically the future discontinuance of service to certain smaller markets, may result in the loss of our FCC licenses in such markets. Current federal law requires prior FCC approval of greater than 25% ownership of Motient by citizens or entities of foreign countries, which could limit the value of our common stock. We Do Not Expect To Pay Any Dividends On Our Common Stock For The Foreseeable Future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipated that any cash dividends will be paid on the common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of any dividend by us will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Series A and Series B Preferred, no dividends may be declared or paid, and no funds shall be set apart for payment, on shares of Motient common stock, unless (i) written notice of such dividend is given to each holder of shares of Series A and Series B Preferred not less than 15 days prior to the record date for such dividend and (ii) a registration statement registering the resale of shares of common stock issuable to the holders of the Series A and Series B Preferred has been filed with the SEC and is effective on the date Motient declares such dividend. Also, under Delaware law, a corporation cannot declare or pay dividends on its capital stock unless it has an available surplus. Furthermore, the terms of some of our financing arrangements directly limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. The terms of any future indebtedness of our subsidiaries also may generally restrict the ability of some of our subsidiaries to distribute earnings or make other payments to us. Future Sales Of Our Common Stock Could Adversely Affect Its Price And/Or Our Ability To Raise Capital. - 22 - Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock and our ability to raise capital. We have announced a rights offering pursuant to which we may sell up to 2.5 million shares of common stock at $8.57 per share to certain of the holders of our common stock as of December 17, 2004 who did not participate in our November 2004 sale of common stock. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executives and other personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Finally, if Motient decides to file a registration statement to raise additional capital (other than the rights offering mentioned above), some of Motient's existing stockholders hold piggyback registration rights that, if exercised, will require Motient to include their shares in the registration statement. Any of these conditions could adversely affect Motient's ability to raise needed capital. We May Have To Take Actions Which Are Disruptive To Its Business To Avoid Registration Under The Investment Company Act Of 1940. We may have to take actions which are disruptive to its business if it is deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our equity investments, in particular its ownership interests in MSV, may constitute investment securities under the Investment Company Act. A company may be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of its total assets excluding cash items and government securities, subject to certain other exclusions. Investment companies are required to register under and comply with the Investment Company Act unless an exclusion or SEC safe harbor applies. If we were to be deemed an investment company, it would become subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act. As a consequence, we would be prohibited from engaging in business as it has in the past and might be subject to civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. In addition, certain of its contracts might be voidable, and a court-appointed receiver could take control of we and liquidate its business. The Consummation and Potential Impact of Our Announced Intent to Restructure Our Ownership of MSV and TerreStar is Uncertain On September 22, 2005, we announced that we had entered into a non-binding term sheet to consolidate the ownership of MSV and TerreStar into Motient, to be followed by a spin-off of TerreStar to Motient's shareholders. Later, on February 2, 2006, we announced that we would likely need to modify the contemplated transaction structure in order to accomplish the goals of the previously announced transaction. Such modification would involve a direct or indirect spin-off of its interests in MSV to Motient shareholders. Our primary remaining asset would then be its controlling interest in TerreStar, although Motient would expect to retain a minority of its current MSV interests (directly or indirectly) to issue to the holders of our preferred stock upon its conversion. We are actively investigating the specific transaction structures available to it to accomplish these goals. We can provide no assurance that any of these transactions will ultimately be completed on the terms described above, if at all, since, among other things, significant documentation and/or - 23 - regulatory filings will need to be finalized by one or more parties, including Motient. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that it can successfully integrate TerreStar into Motient, or that such integration will not impact the ability of TerreStar or Motient to successfully execute their respective business plans. Finally, we can provide no assurance that such direct or indirect spin-off of MSV will not impact the ability of MSV to successfully execute its business plan. Ongoing Litigation Could Negatively Impact Our Value and Our Ability to Successfully Implement Our Business Plan Certain stockholders affiliated with one of our directors, James D. Dondero, have initiated multiple lawsuits against Motient. Collectively, these lawsuits (i) seek damages related to the issuance of our Series A Preferred stock, including rescission, and (ii) allege a variety of claims against certain directors, officers and advisors of Motient, including unjust enrichment and breaches of fiduciary duty. Although this second suit has been dismissed by the Delaware court, Mr. Dondero may appeal such dismissal. If Mr. Dondero is successful in his claims, these suits could materially negatively impact the value of Motient, including but not limited to requiring Motient to rescind the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Although we believe these suits to be without merit, we can provide no assurances that we will ultimately prevail in these matters. Failure to Achieve and Maintain Effective Internal Control Over Financial Reporting in Accordance With Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission Promulgated Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Harm our Business and Operating Results and/or Result in a Loss of Investor Confidence in our Financial Reports, Which Could in Turn Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business and Stock Price In the course of our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, which assessment was conducted over the course of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 in connection with the preparation of 2005 audited financial statements and this report, we identified one material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, as well as any other weaknesses or deficiencies that may exist or hereafter arise or be identified, could harm our business and operating results, and could result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, and, if such weaknesses are not properly remediated, could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. Although we believe that we have taken steps to remediate this material weaknesses we cannot assure you that this remediation will be successful or that additional deficiencies or weaknesses in our controls and procedures will not be identified. In addition, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accounting firm will agree with our assessment that our material weaknesses have been remediated. - 24 - Rights Offering We have issued to each of its stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 17, 2004, one right for each share of Motient common stock held. Each right will entitle any holder that did not participate in the April, July or November 2004 private placements of our common stock to purchase 0.103 shares of its common stock at a price of $8.57 per share, with fractions rounded up to the next whole share. A maximum of 2.5 million shares may be sold in the Rights Offering, generating maximum aggregate proceeds of approximately $21.4 million. The rights are not transferable and will expire if not exercised within the exercise period. The rights will not be exercisable until the registration statement covering the rights and the shares of underlying common stock is filed with and declared effective by the SEC, and the exercise period will expire 30 days after the rights become exercisable. We have not filed a registration statement relating to the rights offering. The holders of the rights will not have over-subscription rights, and there will be no backstop to purchase unsubscribed shares. Purchasers that purchased shares in the November 12, 2004 private placement of its common stock, which include all purchasers in its April and July 2004 private placements, have waived their right to participate in the rights offering. We reserve the right to abandon this rights offering at any time prior to the effectiveness of the registration statement relating to the rights offering, and upon any such abandonment, any and all of the rights previously issued will be cancelled, will no longer be exercisable and will be of no further force or effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. - ----------------------------------- None. 