Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks that could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the value of our common stock. These risks include, but are not limited to, the ones described below. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or the value of our common stock. Our success depends on economic and other external factors that affect consumer decisions about whether and when to have dental procedures performed. Our business success depends in large measure on consumer decisions to have dental procedures performed. In this respect, demand for our products and our business results are sensitive to external factors that, directly or indirectly, affect consumer confidence, affect levels of disposable consumer income, or otherwise lead consumers to defer or elect not to have dental procedures performed. Examples of such external factors include the timing, duration and effects of adverse changes in overall economic conditions, including rates of job loss or growth, rising food and energy prices, tightening consumer credit and the resulting problems in the housing market, and increases in medical and dental costs, nationally or regionally in the markets we serve. Trends in the dental industry towards managed care may also result in decreased consumer access to dental services and thereby adversely affect demand for our products and our sales and profitability. The precise impact of these external factors is difficult to predict in advance, but one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business to the extent they adversely affect consumer spending on dental procedures. The US and world economy are experiencing a recession, which some believe may extend beyond 2009. Recessions and other economic downturns, especially prolonged downturns, as well as disruptions in the credit and stock markets, can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income and lower economic confidence. As noted above, any of these factors can reduce discretionary consumer spending. Many or our cosmetic dental products may be considered discretionary spending by consumers. If consumers reduce or delay spending on cosmetic dental products, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented market that is increasingly global in scope. The dental laboratory industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We believe there are currently approximately 12,000 dental laboratories in the United States. We estimate that our sales presently represent less than 3% of the total sales of custom-made dental prosthetic appliances in the United States. Competition is primarily from other dental laboratories in the respective local market areas. The vast majority of dental laboratories consist of single business units, although there are several other multiple-location operators, including Dental Services Group, Dental Technologies, Inc., and NovaDent. These groups compete with us in several market areas. We also face competition from various mail order dental laboratories, most notably Glidewell Laboratories. Our success thus depends on our ability to be competitive against many different competitors in each market area we serve. If we fail to anticipate evolving technological innovations and product offerings from our competitors, particularly offerings that seek to leverage lower labor costs available in foreign countries, or fail to offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. While the competitive importance of product quality, price, service and innovation varies from product to product, price is a factor, and we experience pricing pressures from competitors in our markets. We face increased competitive pressures from larger competitors, foreign-sourced products and technology-based solutions. The industry in which we operate continues to change and evolve. Increasing competitive pressures from offshore laboratories based in China, India and elsewhere are impacting sales growth and selling prices of certain core products, particularly partial frames and traditional crowns. Technology-based dental laboratory CAD-CAM solutions have required us to make additional investments in capital equipment. While we expect these capital investments to continue to benefit our operations in future periods, there is no assurance that they will be able to do so. Certain of these technology-based solutions also enable dentists to fabricate restorations in their offices rather than purchasing them from an off-site laboratory. Moreover, the dental laboratory industry has continued to consolidate and is increasingly drawing the attention of private equity investors. While the consequences of these changes in the dental laboratory industry are not yet fully known, these competitors may now have greater financial and other resources than previously available to them, which could increase competitive pressures on our operations. These developments could impact the availability of suitable acquisition candidates or otherwise increase the costs of acquiring dental laboratories. Price pressures from such new sources of competition could erode our margins and cause our financial results of operations to suffer. Our success depends on our ability to evaluate and respond to the threats arising from growing foreign competition, changing marketplaces and new technology and our ability to identify ways in which we can competitively provide the products and services demanded by our customers. Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, principally the amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility, and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and strategic acquisitions we may make in the future, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, together with available cash and available borrowings under our senior credit facility, will be adequate to meet future liquidity needs in the coming year. However, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service indebtedness, undertake strategic acquisitions to grow our business, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 5 Table of Contents The amounts that we have borrowed under our senior credit facility have increased significantly as a result of our acquisitions of Green in 2005, Keller in 2006, and Dental Art in 2008. Increased borrowings have substantially increased the amount of cash that we need to generate from our operations in order to meet our principal and interest payment obligations. In the event that our financial performance was to deteriorate, it could result in higher interest rates under our senior credit facility, or a default under the facility, if we are unable to maintain compliance with the financial ratio and other covenants in the facility. We may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business plans. We have incurred significant levels of debt in pursuing our strategic acquisitions. Thus, a relatively greater portion of our cash flow is used to service this debt. This in turn has reduced the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions, and other purposes and, a significant part of our growth strategy is to acquire additional dental laboratories. Given current credit conditions and the level of our existing indebtedness, it may be more difficult for us to make additional borrowings in the future affecting our growth strategy. Similarly, our relatively greater leverage increases our vulnerability to, and limits our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and creates other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with relatively less leverage, especially in times of industry consolidation. Our Senior Credit Facility contains a number of financial and other covenants that may restrict our ability to engage in some business transactions. We have entered into a senior credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. which includes a single line of credit of $25 million and a term loan facility. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance was $24.6 million on the term loan and $16.7 million on the revolving line of credit. The credit agreement restricts our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, engage in a number of actions including incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness, merging or consolidating with, acquiring substantially all of the stock or assets of any other companies, acquiring additional dental laboratories, making investments, transferring assets, incurring or permitting to exist liens, and making any material changes to the nature of our business. The credit facility also contains other covenants that are typical for credit facilities of this size, type and tenor, such as requirements that we meet specified financial ratios and financial condition tests. Our ability to make additional borrowings under the facility depends upon satisfaction of these covenants. Our ability to meet these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with obligations could result in an event of default under the credit facility. A default, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to remedy any default. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our operating results and net worth. General economic conditions, or other factors resulting in changes in the industry in which we operate, competition, advances in technology, or other factors may lead to reductions in expected sales, profitability or cash flows that could result in impairment of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. If the value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles is impaired, our earnings, net worth and financial covenants could be adversely affected. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting unit’s estimated fair value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using an income approach, consistent with our valuation of dental laboratories acquired in purchase business combinations. We determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, based on a multiple of annual earnings. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates and profit margin 6 Table of Contents percentages, and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal forecasts and a business review. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for the laboratories which step one indicated were impaired. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets we utilize valuations of certain intangible assets, including trade names and customer relationships. The analysis we completed for December 31, 2008 determined that the fair value of ten dental laboratories in the NDX Laboratories operating segment was less than their carrying value resulting in goodwill impairment of $6,950,000. As of December 31, 2008, we had $69,384,000 of goodwill remaining on our consolidated balance sheet. If the conditions noted above were to significantly deteriorate, we may need to record additional goodwill impairment charges, which could adversely effect our earnings, net worth and debt covenants. Risks associated with our strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years. Our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify laboratories that are suitable acquisition candidates, successfully negotiate and enter into transactions on acceptable terms, and our capacity to integrate and successfully operate newly acquired as well as our previously acquired laboratories. If we fail to locate suitable acquisition candidates, reach mistaken conclusions as to the suitability of laboratories as acquisition candidates, enter into transactions on terms that prove unfavorable to us, or fail to integrate new laboratories following an acquisition, our ability to operate and grow our business in the ways we would like could be materially and adversely affected. While we will continue to consider acquisitions as a means of enhancing shareowner value, acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties integrating the acquired company, retaining the acquired laboratories’ customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings, and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames, if at all; • loss of key employees from the acquired company; • implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to acquire additional dental laboratories in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital invested. If we are unable to generate the required sales or profit levels, as a result of macroeconomic or operational challenges, we will not acquire new dental laboratories and our future financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense and higher amortization expense related to intangible assets, as well as experience dilution in earnings per share. Impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause us to violate the covenants under our senior credit facility. If we fail to develop new or expand existing customer relationships, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. Our growth depends on our ability to develop new customer relationships with dentists, maintain existing relationships, and to expand existing relationships with our current customers. We cannot guarantee that new customers will be found, that any such new relationships will be successful when they are in place, or that business 7 Table of Contents with current customers will increase. Failure to develop and expand such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot continue to respond to technical innovations we may not be able to compete effectively. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to respond to technological innovations by the dental industry and introduce innovative design extensions for our existing products and to manufacture and market new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, manufacturing and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to our existing products that satisfy our dentist customers’ needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, could harm our ability to successfully grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel would adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees, a number of which are approaching retirement age. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, retain, and properly motivate the members of our senior management team and key employees, or to find suitable replacements for them in the event of death, ill health, resignation, or retirement, could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our business results are adversely affected by increases in labor, benefits and related costs. The costs of medical and other benefits have increased in recent years. The increased usage of medical benefits has intensified medical inflation in the United States. If such trends continue, then our business could be negatively affected. Changes in law that may increase the funding of, and the expense reflected for, employee benefits, could also adversely affect our financial results of operations, financial position, and competitiveness. Our operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, particularly precious metals like gold, platinum and palladium. Pricing and availability of raw materials for use in our businesses — most especially precious metals, like gold, platinum and palladium which are components of many dental alloys — can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including domestic and international economic and geopolitical conditions, production levels, competition, consumer demand, and investor speculation. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. Prolonged higher metal costs may thus have a negative impact on gross profit percentages. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The combination of higher precious metal prices and increasing offshore competition has made it more difficult for us to pass on these additional costs without impacting our customer base. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting standards may result in additional expenses and risks. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting practices, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and evolving rules applicable to publicly-traded companies on the NASDAQ Global Market, are creating uncertainty, and hence risks, for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations due to the fact that they are new and there has not yet emerged a well-developed body of interpretation. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by 8 Table of Contents regulatory and governing bodies. This development could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure, governance and accounting practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and an investment of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could face many material and adverse consequences, including, a possible delisting of our common stock. We are subject to a number of continuing listing standard requirements of Nasdaq. If we fail to comply with these listing standards we may be subject to delisting. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (Nasdaq). Nasdaq marketplace rules require, among other things, that the minimum bid price of our common stock not go below $1 for 30 consecutive business days. However, Nasdaq has suspended this requirement until April 20, 2009. If we failed to comply with the minimum listing bid price requirement or any other continued listing standards and were unable to cure such defect within the alloted time following the receipt of any notice from Nasdaq regarding our failure to achieve such continued listing standard, Nasdaq might delist our common stock. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We may face increased regulatory action by, among other governmental entities, the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”). Since 2007, the industry has faced increased scrutiny from the FDA and other governmental entities concerning the safety and efficacy of dental products distributed in the United States from both foreign and domestic laboratories. As a result of this scrutiny, the FDA may propose possible registration, certification, material content and point of origin disclosure. Several states have passed legislation for a combination of material content and point of origin disclosures that will go into effect in 2009. Potential changes in laws, regulations and standards involving these issues, while new and evolving, are creating uncertainty in compliance requirements and could result in higher costs in order to comply with any revisions or additions to them and may create new legal liabilities if we fail to do so. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party suppliers. If we experience declining operating performance, or if we experience liquidity challenges, our suppliers may demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us. These demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a drain on our liquidity. In addition, many of our suppliers may be significantly impacted by current macroeconomic conditions. We may have no warning before a supplier fails, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot control the cost of our raw products, and cost increases must either be passed along to our customers or will result in erosion of our earnings. Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this Annual Report, particularly statements contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend” and other similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report or hereafter included in other publicly available documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), 9 Table of Contents reports to our stockholders and other publicly available statements issued or released by us involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause our actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such future results are based upon our best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Various risks, uncertainties and contingencies could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. These include, but are not limited to, those listed above in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 