ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If our current products are not commercially successful, or if we do not increase our product portfolio and successfully commercialize new products, our operating results will be impaired and our viability jeopardized. We are highly dependent on successfully selling our products for which we have received regulatory approval or clearance. We do not expect to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in the United States for any of our products under development, if obtained at all, prior to 2008. To date, we have received regulatory clearance or approval to market VITOSS, CORTOSS and ALIQUOT for specified uses in the European Union, Australia and countries adhering to the regulatory standards of the European Union. We have also received regulatory clearance or approval to market VITOSS, IMBIBE, and VITAGEL in the United States. Revenues generated from sales of our approved or cleared products in their approved territories have not been and in the future may not be sufficient to fund operations. There is no assurance that we can increase our product portfolio or that any additional products will be commercially successful and generate revenues sufficient to fund operations. In particular, if our CORTOSS product is not cleared in the United States or does not become commercially successful, our long-term viability may be jeopardized. Certain factors that may limit our ability to increase sales include: • the ability of our direct sales representatives to develop and retain a customer base and compete with larger sales forces with more extensive product portfolios; • our dependence on the efforts of independent agents and distributors to promote the use of our products, over which we have limited control; • the introduction of new products into the market by competing orthopedic companies based upon other competing technologies; • our dependence on the continued publication of independent pre-clinical and clinical data 23 Table of Contents to support the use of our products; • our need to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our products; and • the need for payors to authorize insurance reimbursement for procedures using our products. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. Surgeons will not use our products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and recommendations from prominent surgeons and mentors that our products are safe and effective. Our products are based on newer technologies and must compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. The attributes of some of our products may require some changes in surgical techniques that have become standard within the medical community, and there may be resistance to change. Therefore, for these products, we must be able to convince surgeons who currently favor existing techniques to switch to new procedures that would use our products. Many surgeons will not purchase our products until there is sufficient, long-term clinical evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods. In addition, surgeons may be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third party reimbursement for our products. Any failure to gain market acceptance of our products could result in lower sales and the inability to become profitable. If losses continue in the long term, it could limit our growth in the orthopedic industry and jeopardize our viability. We have experienced negative operating cash flows since our inception and have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our stock. In July 2004, we raised approximately $24,000,000 in net proceeds from the sale of 5,681,818 shares of our Common Stock to Angiotech. In December 2005, we raised an aggregate of approximately $12,900,000 in net proceeds from the sale of 4,318,182 shares of our Common Stock to institutional investors. In November and December 2006, we raised approximately $26,600,000 in net proceeds from the sale of 8,819,128 shares of our Common Stock to institutional investors. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $28,338,522 as of December 31, 2006 will be sufficient to meet our currently estimated operating and investing requirements at least into the second quarter of 2008. To date, we have not been profitable. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and at December 31, 2006, had an accumulated deficit of $136,037,774. These losses have resulted principally from: • the development and patenting of our technologies; • pre-clinical and clinical studies; • preparation of submissions to the FDA and foreign regulatory bodies; and • the development of manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our product development efforts, expand our marketing and sales activities and further develop our manufacturing capabilities. We may not ever successfully commercialize our products in development. We may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future and our 24 Table of Contents products may never be commercially accepted or generate sufficient product sales to fund operations. We expect to raise additional capital. If we are unable to raise additional capital in the future, our product development could be limited and our long term viability may be threatened; however, if we raise additional capital, your percentage ownership as a shareholder of Orthovita will decrease and constraints could be placed on the operation of our business. We plan to seek to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties either alone or in combination with equity or debt financing investments. There are factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds including, without limitation: • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical and clinical trials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals or clearances to make or sell products; • unforeseen difficulties in operating an effective direct sales and distribution network; • unanticipated expenditures in research and product development or manufacturing activities; • delayed, insufficient or lack of market acceptance of our products; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition and defense of intellectual property rights; • the failure to develop strategic alliances for the marketing of some of our products; • unforeseen changes in healthcare reimbursement for procedures using our products; • inability to increase sales of our approved or cleared products; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our products; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third-party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • inability to meet our obligations under our revenue sharing agreement; • the need to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our products; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulation; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • any imposition of penalties for failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; or • management’s perception that uncertainties relating to these factors may be increasing. In addition, although we have no present commitments or understandings to do so, we may seek to expand our operations and product line through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any such acquisitions or joint ventures may increase our capital requirements. 25 Table of Contents If we do not manage commercial scale manufacturing capability and capacity for our products in compliance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner, our product sales may suffer. The manufacture of our products is subject to regulation and periodic inspection by various regulatory bodies for compliance with current FDA Quality System Regulation and requirements, and EU Medical Device Directives requirements, International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) 9000 Series standards, ISO/European Norm (“EN”) 13485 and equivalent requirements. Our 24,800 square foot VITOSS, VITAGEL and CORTOSS FDA registered manufacturing facilities located in Malvern, Pennsylvania produce our commercial products, are leased through July 2012 and are certified as meeting the requirements of ISO 9000: 2000 and EN 13485 for the period July 1, 2006 through July 1, 2009. These facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA for compliance with FDA device manufacture requirements. The most recent FDA inspection in June 2006 resulted in no FDA Form 483 observations cited. . Pursuant to our license agreement with Angiotech, we assumed full responsibility for manufacturing VITAGEL in 2006 and CELLPAKER in 2007 after receiving the requisite approvals from the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with FDA requirements to continue to manufacture VITOSS, VITAGEL, CORTOSS or CELLPAKER, which could result in delay or inability to manufacture and sell the products. We believe our manufacturing facilities have the capacity to meet our commercial needs at least into 2008 and plan to expand our manufacturing capacity in 2007 to meet our commercial needs for the next several years. Our third-party manufacturers are also regulated by governmental agencies and are required to be ISO 9001/EN 13485 certified or otherwise meet our quality system requirements. We manufacture CELLPAKER, IMBIBE and ALIQUOT through outside third-party contract manufacturers. Our VITOSS is converted to VITOSS FOAM by Kensey, our development partner. Our product sales depend upon, among other things, our ability to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner. The manufacture of our products is subject to regulation and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies for compliance with quality standards. There can be no assurance that the regulatory authorities will not, during the course of an inspection of existing or new facilities, identify what they consider to be deficiencies in meeting the applicable standards and request or seek remedial action. Failure to comply with such regulations or a delay in attaining compliance may result in: • warning letters; • injunctions suspending the manufacture of products; • civil and criminal penalties; 26 Table of Contents • refusal to grant premarket approvals or clearances, CE Certifications, CE Certification renewals, or clearances to products that are subject to future or pending submissions; • product recalls or seizures of products; and • total or partial suspensions of production. If we or any of our third party manufacturers cannot produce our products, our product sales may suffer. If we are unable to operate an effective sales and distribution network, our ability to generate sales and become profitable will be impaired. We have assembled a field sales network of independent sales agencies and direct sales representatives in the U.S. in order to market VITOSS, VITAGEL and IMBIBE. Outside of the U.S., we utilize a network of independent stocking distributors to market VITOSS, CORTOSS and ALIQUOT. We seek to strengthen our field sales network through the addition of direct sales representatives in those U.S. territories where we either do not have independent sales agency coverage or the territories are underserved. We are dependent upon our distributors, sales agencies and direct sales representatives for the sale of our products. Any failure to maintain and effectively manage our distribution network will impair our ability to generate additional sales and become profitable. There can be no assurance that the distributors and agencies will perform their obligations in their respective territories as expected, or that we will continue to derive any revenue from these arrangements. We cannot assure that our interests will continue to coincide with those of our distributors and agencies. In addition, we cannot assure that our distributors and agencies will not develop independently, or with other companies, other competitive products. The independent U.S. agencies selling VITOSS generally sell products from other orthopedic companies. A single agency may sell VITOSS, as well as hardware manufactured by other orthopedic companies consisting of metal plates, screws and titanium spinal cages, to end user hospitals. Our sales could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more of our successful agencies lost their hardware product line provided by other orthopedic companies. Additionally, our independent agencies may be unable or unwilling to carry or effectively sell VITOSS as a result of the introduction of new products into the market based upon other technologies that could compete with VITOSS. Our sales could be adversely affected if one or more of our successful agencies eliminated VITOSS from their product line for any other reason and terminated their agency arrangement with us. Our sales could also be adversely affected if our independent agencies become concerned that their agency arrangement with us could be eliminated as a result of another company’s offer or threat to acquire us. The complete product line represented by the distributors and agencies, including our products, is an important factor in the distributors’ or agencies’ ability to penetrate the market. Accordingly, our ability to penetrate the markets that we intend to serve is highly dependent upon the quality and breadth of the other 27 Table of Contents product lines carried by our distribution network, the components of which may change from time to time, and over which we have little or no control. In an effort to further accelerate the growth of sales, we continue to build our sales management team and add direct sales representatives to our organization for certain open or underserved territories in the U.S. The addition of direct sales representatives will increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, there is no assurance that adding direct sales representatives will improve sales or that our direct sales representatives will be successful in generating sufficient sales to cover the cost of supporting their sales activities. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to market or sell our products or that we will successfully implement this type of sales and distribution method. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of our medical devices. The unapproved or “off-label” use of our products could also adversely affect the reputation of our products. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from labeling, training, or promoting our products for off-label uses. This prohibition means that we may not proactively discuss or provide information or training on the use of our products outside of their cleared or approved uses, except in certain limited scientific and other settings. In the practice of medicine, physicians may use devices for off-label uses. Because the interpretation of these requirements is subjective, FDA could deem some of our activities as promotional even when we believe in good faith that such activities were not promotional. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Enforcement measures taken against us could harm our business. The medical devices that we manufacture and market, or intend to market, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the European Union Medical Device Directive and other worldwide regulatory agencies. In order to market our products, we must apply for, receive and maintain all necessary regulatory approvals or clearances in each applicable jurisdiction for specified uses of the products. Under FDA regulations and laws of other countries, we are only permitted to commercially distribute our products for approved indication(s) or use(s); failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to FDA and other enforcement action. CORTOSS received CE Certification, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives, in January 2003 for use in repairing vertebral compression fractures. However, surgeons may have attempted to use CORTOSS “off-label” in procedures to repair vertebral compression fractures performed prior to the European Union’s approval of CORTOSS for this type of procedure. Furthermore, all surgeons have not been trained in the proper use of CORTOSS to repair vertebral compression fractures. A surgeon who has not been properly trained to use CORTOSS in a procedure to repair vertebral compression fractures could pose a risk to the reputation of our CORTOSS product. In addition, the occurrence of an adverse event while using our product “off-label” in procedures other than the repair of vertebral compression fractures or screw augmentation could adversely affect the reputation of CORTOSS or any of our other products as well as us. 28 Table of Contents If we do not successfully train a sufficient number of surgeons, demand for our products could be adversely affected. It is critical to the commercial success of our products that our independent distributors, agents and direct sales representatives succeed in training a sufficient number of surgeons and in providing them adequate instruction in the use of our products. This training requires a commitment of time and money by surgeons that they may be unwilling to give. Even if surgeons are willing, if they are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could damage our business and reduce product sales. If health care providers cannot obtain third-party reimbursement for procedures using our products, or if such reimbursement is inadequate, we may never become profitable. Successful sales of our products in the United States and other markets will depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. Healthcare providers, such as hospitals and surgeons that purchase medical devices for treatment of their patients, generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Both public and private insurance reimbursement plans are central to new product acceptance. Healthcare providers may refuse to use our products if reimbursement is inadequate. We do not yet know how reimbursement will be handled for all of our products because some procedures that use our products are new and reimbursement policies regarding these procedures have not been finalized. Inadequate reimbursement by private insurance companies and government programs could significantly reduce usage of our products. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has placed, and we believe will continue to place, greater pressure on medical device pricing. Such pressures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products profitably. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. To the extent that our products receive government reimbursement, we are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans’ health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 29 Table of Contents results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of specialty suppliers of certain raw materials, and our business and financial results could be harmed if a specialty supplier no longer provides materials to us. Our ability to manufacture VITOSS, VITAGEL and CORTOSS and to have VITOSS FOAM manufactured by and for us is dependent on a limited number of specialty suppliers of certain raw materials. We have a single source supplier for thrombin, a requisite raw material in our VITAGEL product. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture these products. Moreover, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-sourced material used to manufacture VITOSS, CORTOSS and certain products that we may develop in the future may result in a breach of our material financing agreement with Royalty Trust. Although we believe that we maintain good relationships with our suppliers, we cannot assure that such supplies and services will continue to be available with respect to our current and future commercialized products. We have a supply agreement which provides bovine collagen for the manufacture of VITAGEL. The initial term of the supply agreement expires in August 2008; however, we received notice in the first quarter of 2007 from our supplier of its intent to cease production of bovine collagen between January 1, 2008 and June 30, 2008 and either close or sell its collagen processing facility by December 31, 2008. While we are seeking to obtain a strategic collagen reserve for VITAGEL, there is no assurance that we will be successful. The occurrence of any of the following could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell VITAGEL and CELLPAKER, which is approved for use only in conjunction with VITAGEL: • our inability to find an alternative supplier with acceptable prices, quality and requisite regulatory approvals; • our inability to obtain a strategic reserve of this collagen sufficient to meet our anticipated sales requirements; • our inability to obtain collagen supply from this manufacturing facility if it is sold; or 30 Table of Contents • delays caused by the need to secure PMA approval of a new manufacturing facility for the raw material. If we are unable to sell VITAGEL and CELLPAKER for a period of time, our customers may seek alternative products and we may lose market share for VITAGEL and CELLPAKER. Further, there is no assurance that we will regain any VITAGEL and CELLPAKER market share that may be lost. Moreover, a delay or inability to sell VITAGEL and CELLPAKER could result in an impairment charge to our intangible asset represented by the then-remaining balance of our original $9,000,000 prepayment of the profit-sharing license royalties on sales of VITAGEL and CELLPAKER. We prepaid the royalties on December 29, 2006 and the term of our license for these products is scheduled to expire July 31, 2017. We also cannot assure that supply agreements will be sufficient to meet our own needs and Angiotech’s needs if Angiotech elects to be supplied by us under our license agreement with them. Under our license agreement with Angiotech, in the future we may be obligated, under certain circumstances, to provide COSTASIS (an Angiotech-branded VITAGEL product) and certain COSTASIS materials to Angiotech. Our current supply contract may not permit us to supply materials to Angiotech or may otherwise be inadequate, and we may need to seek additional suppliers for COSTASIS materials. We are dependent on a limited number of specialized manufacturing suppliers for certain products, and our business and financial results could be harmed if a third party manufacturer fails to supply us with these products. We are dependent upon Kensey and other third party manufacturers for the supply of certain products. Our VITOSS is converted to VITOSS FOAM by Kensey, our development partner. We also manufacture certain delivery accessory products through third party specialty suppliers. There is no assurance that these manufacturers will continue to supply our requirements. If they fail to do so, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to engage another supplier for these products on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. A delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of these products may negatively impact our product sales. Our pivotal CORTOSS trial may not yield supportive or sufficient data, which may delay or preclude FDA clearance for commercial distribution of this product. The FDA granted approval to conduct our pivotal trial for CORTOSS in November 2003. In this trial we are studying CORTOSS for use in vertebral augmentation. We began enrollment in 2004 and completed enrollment in the first quarter of 2007. The protocol for the trial contemplates a 24 month follow up period for each patient, and we may be required to complete the follow up period for all enrolled patients in order to submit a 510(k) submission. The completion of our pivotal trial and submission package for CORTOSS may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • subjects are not followed-up at the rate we currently expect; • subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our pivotal trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • inspections of our clinical trial sites by the FDA or Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, find regulatory violations that require us to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit us from using some or all of the data in support of our FDA submission; 31 Table of Contents • changes in laws, governmental regulations or administrative actions force us to modify the conduct of our trials or otherwise create unexpected burdens; • the interim results of our clinical trials are inconclusive or negative; • one or more of our IRBs suspends or terminates our trial at an investigational site or withdraws its approval of our trial; • one or more of our clinical investigators withdraws from our trial or deviates from our approved protocol; or • third parties, investigators and service providers involved with our pivotal trial do not perform as contractually required or expected. If one or more of the foregoing problems occur, it may delay or prevent us from obtaining clearance of the CORTOSS product. If we fail to obtain and maintain the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary to make or sell our products, sales could be delayed or never realized. The jurisdictions in which we seek to market our products will regulate these products as medical devices. In most circumstances, we and our distributors and agents must obtain regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications and otherwise comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, quality and efficacy standards. These regulations vary from country to country, and the regulatory review can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not obtain or maintain the regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications necessary to make or market our products in our targeted markets. Moreover, regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications that are obtained may involve significant restrictions on the anatomic sites and types of procedures for which our products can be used. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications. If we do not obtain or maintain regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications to enable us to make or market our products in the U.S. or elsewhere, or if the clearances, approvals and certifications are subject to significant restrictions, we may never generate significant revenues. The regulatory requirements in some of the jurisdictions where we currently market or intend to market our products are summarized below. United States Regulation by FDA. The FDA regulates the clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. To date, we have received 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market our VITOSS, VITOSS FOAM and IMBIBE labels. During 2002 and 2003, we received approval from the FDA to conduct two pilot clinical studies in the U.S. to study the use of CORTOSS in vertebral augmentation. The two pilot clinical studies are fully enrolled and we expect those trials to be completed by the third quarter of 2007. During 2004, we received approval from the FDA to conduct a pivotal clinical study in the U.S. to further study the use of 32 Table of Contents CORTOSS in vertebral augmentation using the vertebroplasty surgical technique. We completed patient enrollment of the pivotal clinical study in February 2007. There can be no assurance that the data from these clinical trials will support FDA clearance to market this product for the designated use. We are currently manufacturing VITOSS, VITAGEL, CELLPAKER and CORTOSS in the U.S., distributing VITOSS, VITAGEL and IMBIBE in the U.S., and distributing VITOSS, CORTOSS and ALIQUOT outside the U.S. We are manufacturing IMBIBE and ALIQUOT in the U.S. through outside third-party contract manufacturers. In addition, under our agreement with Kensey, Kensey has the exclusive right to manufacture any approved or cleared jointly developed products under the agreement. This right extends until February 2014 for the VITOSS FOAM product platform. VITOSS and VITAGEL, as well as any other products that we manufacture or distribute following their approval or clearance by the FDA, will be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. If safety or efficacy problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may impose severe limitations on the use of the product. Moreover, modifications to the approved or cleared product may require the submission of a new 510(k) notification or premarket approval application or premarket application supplement. We may not be successful in obtaining approval to market the modified product in a timely manner, if at all. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant premarket clearance or premarket approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA may not approve or clear indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Indeed, the FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products. Our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. European Union and Other International Markets General. International sales of medical devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our products in markets outside the United States will be subject to regulatory approvals or clearances in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging and labeling requirements and import restrictions on medical devices. In addition, each country has its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval or clearance by foreign government authorities is uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. Requirement of CE Certification in the European Union. To market a product in the European Union, we must be entitled to affix a CE mark, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. A CE 33 Table of Contents Certification enables us to market a product in all of the countries of the European Union, as well as in other countries, such as Switzerland and Israel, that have mutual recognition agreements with the EU or have adopted the European Union’s regulatory standards. To date, we have received a CE Certification for the use of VITOSS as a bone void filler and for the use of CORTOSS in screw augmentation and vertebral augmentation procedures. There can be no assurance that we will receive CE Certifications for CORTOSS for any other indications for use or that we will receive CE Certifications for other products, including VITAGEL. After clearance or approval of our products, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, and if we fail to comply with FDA regulations, our business could suffer. Even after clearance or approval of a product, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including the requirements that our facility be registered and our devices listed with the agency. We are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. We must report corrections and removals to the FDA where the correction or removal was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act caused by the device that may present a risk to health, and maintain records of other corrections or removals. The FDA closely regulates promotion and advertising. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or new intended uses; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. 34 Table of Contents The difficulties of operating in international markets may harm sales of our products. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate, and in which our products are sold. The types of risks that we face in international operations include: • the imposition of governmental controls; • logistical difficulties in managing international operations; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales and operations may be limited or disrupted if we cannot successfully meet the challenges of operating internationally. If we fail to meet our obligations under a revenue sharing agreement, we may be required to repurchase from an investor its right to receive revenues on certain of our product sales, and the investor could foreclose on certain assets that are essential to our operations. During October 2001, we completed a $10,000,000 product development and equity financing with Paul Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund, L.P., which was subsequently assigned to Royalty Trust. In this financing, we sold Royalty Trust a revenue interest and shares of our Common Stock. The revenue interest agreement provides for Royalty Trust to receive 3.5% on the first $100,000,000 of annual sales, reducing to 1.75% of annual sales in excess of $100,000,000 of certain of our products, including VITOSS, CORTOSS and any structural bioactive device, in North America and Europe through 2016, subject to certain adjustments. This revenue interest percentage is subject to increase to a maximum rate of 4.375% on that portion of product sales that specifically relates to VITOSS and CORTOSS if we fail to meet contractually specified levels of annual net sales of products for which Royalty Trust is entitled to receive its revenue interest. Since we failed to meet the specified annual net sales levels, Royalty Trust received 4.375% on that portion of product sales that specifically related to VITOSS and CORTOSS during 2004, 2005 and 2006. We do not currently expect that changes in the revenue interest percentage resulting from fluctuations in sales of products subject to the revenue interest will have a material effect on operating results for a period when considered relative to sales of the products for that period. Throughout the term of the Royalty Trust revenue interest agreement, we are required to make advance payments on the revenue interest obligation at the beginning of each year. The amount of the advance payment is $3,000,000 in each of the years 2008 through 2016. While we believe that we will have sufficient cash at the end of 2007 to make the required $3,000,000 advance payment to Royalty Trust during 2008, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient cash to meet our advance payment obligations for the years 2009 through 2016. Advance payments impact cash flow when made, and they affect earnings only as the advance payments are credited within each period against the revenue interest actually earned by Royalty Trust during that year, with any excess advance payments refunded to us shortly after the end of the year. Our obligation to pay the revenue interest is secured by our licenses, patents and trademarks relating to certain of our products, including VITOSS, CORTOSS and any structural bioactive device, in North America and Europe, the 12% royalty interest we pay to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries on the sales of our products, and the shares of common stock of one 35 Table of Contents of our wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Pledged Assets”). We are also required to maintain: • Cash, cash equivalent and investment balances equal to or greater than the product of (i) 1.5 and (ii) total operating losses, net of non-cash charges, for the preceding fiscal quarter; and • total shareholders’ equity of at least $8,664,374; provided, however, that under the provisions of the agreement with Royalty Trust, when calculating shareholders’ equity for the purposes of the financial covenants, the revenue interest obligation is included in shareholders’ equity at its carrying value. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all financial covenants, and we do not expect to be out of compliance with the financial covenants within the next twelve months. However, if we fail to maintain such balances and shareholders’ equity, Royalty Trust can demand that we repurchase its revenue interest. In addition to the failure to comply with the financial covenants described above, the occurrence of certain events, including those set forth below, triggers Royalty Trust’s right to require us to repurchase its revenue interest: • a judicial decision that has a material adverse effect on our business, operations, assets or financial condition; • the acceleration of our obligations or the exercise of default remedies by a secured lender under certain debt instruments; • a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy that involves us or our wholly owned subsidiary, Vita Special Purpose Corp.; • our insolvency; • a change in control of our company; and • the breach of a representation, warranty or certification made by us in the agreements with Royalty Trust that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, assets or financial condition, and such breach is not cured within 30 days after notice thereof from Royalty Trust. In addition, our failure to maintain strategic reserve supplies of each significant single-source material used to manufacture VITOSS, CORTOSS and certain products that we may develop in the future may result in a breach of our material financing agreement with Royalty Trust. We may not have sufficient cash funds to repurchase the revenue interest upon a repurchase event. The exact amount of the repurchase price is dependent upon certain factors, including when the repurchase event occurs. If a repurchase event had been triggered and Royalty Trust exercised its right to require us to repurchase its revenue interest as of December 31, 2006, we would have owed Royalty Trust approximately $24,000,000. The repurchase price for Royalty Trust’s revenue interest as of a given date is calculated in three steps. First, a specified annual rate of return (25% effective October 16, 2005) is applied to Royalty Trust’s $10,000,000 original purchase price from October 16, 2001 to the date of determination of the repurchase price. Second, the result obtained from the first step of the calculation is added to the original $10,000,000 purchase price. Third, the sum obtained from the 36 Table of Contents second step of the calculation is reduced by both $3,333,333 and the actual amount of revenue interest paid during the specified period. If we were unable to repurchase the revenue interest upon a repurchase event, Royalty Trust could foreclose on the Pledged Assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy. Royalty Trust could also foreclose on the Pledged Assets if we became insolvent or involved in a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding. No repurchase events or foreclosures have occurred as of December 31, 2006. In the event that we repurchased Royalty Trust’s revenue interest, Royalty Trust would have no obligation to surrender the shares of our Common Stock that it had purchased as part of the revenue interests assignment transaction. Our results of operations may fluctuate due to factors out of our control, which could cause volatility in our stock price. VITOSS, VITAGEL, CELLPAKER, IMBIBE, CORTOSS and ALIQUOT are currently our only products that have received regulatory clearances or approvals for sale. VITOSS is cleared for sale in the U.S. and the European Union. VITAGEL, CELLPAKER and IMBIBE are cleared for sale in the U.S. CORTOSS and ALIQUOT are cleared for sale in the European Union. We launched VITAGEL and CELLPAKER in 2005 after initially receiving rights to sell these products under a distribution agreement in 2004. We currently sell VITAGEL and CELLPAKER under a license agreement, the termination of which would have a material adverse effect on our sales revenues. Future levels of VITOSS, VITAGEL, CORTOSS, ALIQUOT, CELLPAKER and IMBIBE product sales are difficult to predict. VITOSS, VITAGEL and CELLPAKER product sales to date may not be indicative of future sales levels. VITOSS, CORTOSS and ALIQUOT sales levels in Europe may fluctuate due to seasonality of elective surgeries and the timing of any distributor stocking orders and VITOSS, VITAGEL, IMBIBE and CELLPAKER sales levels may fluctuate in the U.S. due to seasonality of elective surgeries and the timing of orders from hospitals. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of additional factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the timing of governmental approvals or clearances for our products and our competitors’ products; • unanticipated events associated with clinical and pre-clinical trials of our products; • the medical community’s acceptance of our products; • the timing in obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement of our products; • the success of competitive products; • our ability to enter into strategic alliances with other companies; • expenses associated with development and protection of intellectual property matters; • establishment of commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; • events affecting logistics and elective surgery trends; • the timing of expenses related to commercialization of new products; • competitive disruptions to our distribution channels; • the adequate training of a sufficient number of surgeons in the use of our products; • pending or threatened offers to acquire us; and • timing of governmental approvals or clearances for us to manufacture the products we sell. 37 Table of Contents The results of our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may not meet expectations of securities analysts and investors. This may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our business will be damaged if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to our products, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims by others. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. For example, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. As of February 22, 2007, we own or control eighteen issued U.S. patents and nineteen pending patent applications in the U.S., and several counterparts of certain of these patents and pending patent applications worldwide, including Canada, Europe, Mexico and Japan. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any of the pending patent applications. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or we were the first to file patent applications for the relevant inventions for the following reasons: • patent applications filed prior to December 2000 in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until issued; • patent applications filed after November 2000 in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until eighteen months from the date of filing; and • the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. If we do receive a patent, it may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary position in the technology or to be commercially useful to us. In addition, if we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Finally, even if our intellectual property rights are adequately protected, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and result in a diversion of management attention. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, our competitors could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products and compete more directly with us, which could damage our business. In addition to the risk of failing to adequately protect our proprietary rights, there is a risk that we may become subject to a claim that we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Although we do not believe that we are infringing the rights of others, third parties may claim that we are doing so. 38 Table of Contents There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry generally, and in the spinal market segments particularly. If the holder of patents brought an infringement action against us, the cost of litigating the claim could be substantial and divert management attention. In addition, if a court determined that one of our products infringed a patent, we could be prevented from selling that product unless we could obtain a license from the owner of the patent. A license may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Modification of our products or development of new products to avoid infringement may require us to conduct additional clinical trials for these new or modified products and to revise our filings with the FDA, which is time consuming and expensive. If we were not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our product, our business could suffer. We have obtained certain of our intellectual property rights and our rights to develop and commercialize certain products, and made certain commitments regarding our intellectual property and these rights, through license and development agreements with third parties. These agreements generally may be terminated by our counterparty if we materially breach any of our obligations under the agreement. We may disagree with outside parties as to our and their obligations under the agreement or the interpretation of provisions in the agreement. Any such disagreements could cause the other party to seek to terminate our rights under the particular agreement. If any of our agreements were terminated, we could lose the rights to the product, product candidate or intellectual property covered by the agreement, reducing our potential revenues and significantly harming our business. Whether or not such a termination were proper, if a dispute arises under any of our agreements, the need to resolve the dispute could take significant resources and divert management’s time and attention. If we cannot keep up with technological changes and marketing initiatives of competitors, sales of our products may be harmed. Extensive research efforts and rapid technological change characterize the market for products in the orthopedic market. We anticipate that we will face intense competition from medical device, medical products and pharmaceutical companies. For instance, the use of bone morphogenic proteins, or BMPs, in orthopedic surgery has increased significantly in the past five years. In addition, several PMMA bone cements have received 510(k) clearance since 2004 for vertebral augmentation of VCFs. Further, in 2004, the spinal bone grafting market saw the introduction of total disk replacement devices (TDRs) as treatment alternative for degenerative disc disease designed to preserve the motion of the vertebrae of the spine. Our products could be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete by these and other competitors’ technological advances. We may be unable to respond to technological advances through the development and introduction of new products. Moreover, many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution, manufacturing and technological resources than us. These competitors may be in the process of seeking FDA or other regulatory approvals or clearances, or patent protection, for competitive products. Our competitors could, therefore, commercialize competing products in advance of our products. They may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of: • research and development expertise; • experience in conducting clinical trials; 39 Table of Contents • experience in regulatory matters; • manufacturing efficiency; • name recognition; • sales and marketing expertise; • established distribution channels; and • established relationships with health care providers and payors. These advantages may adversely affect our plans for market acceptance of our products. We may acquire technologies or companies in the future, and these acquisitions could result in dilution to our shareholders and disruption of our business. Entering into an acquisition could divert management attention. We also could fail to assimilate the acquired company, which could lead to higher operating expenses. Finally, our shareholders could be diluted if we issue shares of our stock to acquire another company or technology. Provisions of Pennsylvania law or our Articles of Incorporation may deter a third party from seeking to obtain control of us or may affect your rights as a shareholder. Certain provisions of Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation enable our board of directors to issue up to 19,998,100 shares of preferred stock having rights, privileges and preferences as are determined by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of our common shareholders. For example, an issuance of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the common shareholders; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Our stock price may be volatile. Our stock price, like that of many small cap medical technology companies, may be volatile. In general, equity markets, including Nasdaq, have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The following factors could also cause our stock price to be volatile or decrease: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • under-performance in relation to analysts’ estimates or financial guidance provided by us; • changes in the financial guidance we provide to the investment community; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our stock; 40 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • issues in establishing commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; • disruptions with the manufacturing of our products, including with respect to our third-party manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials; • unanticipated events associated with clinical and pre-clinical trials; • FDA and international regulatory actions regarding us or our competitors; • determinations by governments and insurance companies regarding reimbursement for medical procedures using our or our competitors’ products; • the medical community’s acceptance of our products; • product sales growth rates; • difficulties in establishing and expanding our sales and distribution channels; • disruptions to our sales and distribution channels as a result of competitive market changes; • product recalls; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or by others; • changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • business conditions affecting other medical device companies or the medical device industry generally; • general market conditions, particularly for companies with small market capitalizations; and • pending or threatened offers to acquire us. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We manufacture medical devices that are used on patients in surgery, and we may be subject to a product liability lawsuit. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under certain of our agreements with our distributors, sales agencies and hospital customers, we indemnify the distributor, sales agency or hospital from product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $10,000,000 although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may have to pay the entire amount of any award. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide not to carry this insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we cannot attract and retain the services of key employees. We depend substantially upon the continued service and performance of our existing executive officers. We rely on key personnel in formulating and implementing our product research, 41 Table of Contents development and commercialization strategies. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. If one or more of our key employees resigns, the loss of that employee could harm our business. If we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees, despite our use of confidentiality agreements. We have modified some of our products without FDA clearance. The FDA could retroactively determine that the modifications were improper and require us to stop marketing and recall the modified products until such clearance was obtained. Any modification to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance; any change that affects the safety or effectiveness of a PMA approved device requires a premarket approval supplement. We have made modifications to some of our products in the past, and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe, based upon FDA’s regulations and guidance, do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, we could be required to obtain new clearances or approvals for the modifications. We also may be required to recall and to stop marketing modified products until such clearance or approval is obtained, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data to support these supplementary submissions, depending on the nature of the changes. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and operating results. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Our failure to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of or restrictions on our manufacturing operations, delays in approving or clearing a product, refusal to permit the import or export of our products, a recall or seizure of our products, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 42 Table of Contents 