ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have organized the risk factors set forth below that may affect us or our securities into the following four categories: (i) risks related to our business and industry; (ii) risks related to our financial results and financing; (iii) risks related to our intellectual property and litigation; and (iv) risks related to investing in our stock and equity markets. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY If our current products are not commercially successful, our operating results will be impaired and our viability will be jeopardized. We are highly dependent on successfully selling our products that have received regulatory approval or clearance. To date, Vitoss, Imbibe, Cortoss, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure are approved or cleared for specified uses in the United States. Vitoss, Cortoss, Aliquot, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure are cleared or approved for specified uses in the European Union and countries adhering to the regulatory standards of the European Union. Vitoss, Cortoss and Aliquot are also cleared for specified uses in Australia. Revenues generated from sales of our approved or cleared products in their approved territories have not been and in the future may not be sufficient to fund operations. In addition, Cortoss represents a new technology which will generally need to be approved by technology review boards of target hospitals in order for the hospitals to carry the product. The amount of time to obtain approvals from the technology review boards can be difficult to predict and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure widespread hospital approvals for Cortoss. We expect our U.S. Cortoss sales will increase as the product launch progresses, we obtain further hospital approvals for the product and our sales force trains more physicians on the product. There is no assurance that Cortoss or our other products will generate revenues sufficient to enable us to fund operations. Certain factors that may also limit our ability to increase sales include: • the ability of our direct sales representatives and independent distributors to develop and retain a customer base and compete effectively with larger sales forces offering more extensive product portfolios; • the introduction of new products based upon competing technologies into the market by competing orthopedic, biomedical and other companies; • increased efforts by hospitals to reduce costs of medical devices; • our dependence in certain geographical areas on the efforts of independent agents and distributors over which we have limited control to promote the use of our products; • our dependence on the continued publication of independent pre-clinical and clinical data to support the use of our products; • our need to educate and train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our products; and • the need for payers to authorize insurance reimbursement for procedures using our products. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. Surgeons will not use our products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and recommendations from prominent surgeons and mentors that our products are safe and effective. Our products are based on newer technologies and compete with more established treatments currently accepted as the standards of care. The attributes of some of our products may require some changes in surgical techniques that have become standard within the medical community, and there may be resistance to change. Therefore, for these products, we must be able to convince surgeons who currently favor existing techniques to switch to new procedures that would use our products. Many surgeons will not purchase our products until there is sufficient, long-term clinical evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods. In addition, surgeons may be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third party reimbursement for our products. Any failure to gain market acceptance of our products could result in lower sales and our inability to become profitable. An insufficient level of product sales may also result in excess product inventory charges, which would negatively impact operating results. We may manufacture product inventory in anticipation of product launches or order significant inventory from third party suppliers in advance due to long manufacturing lead times. For example, at the time of our U.S. launch of Cortoss and Aliquot (our system used to deliver Cortoss in vertebroplasty) in the second half of 2009, we expected significant revenue growth from these 15 Table of Contents products. We believe that the U.S. launch of Cortoss and Aliquot for vertebral augmentation procedures has been negatively affected by several factors, including the publication of two small studies in The New England Journal of Medicine in August 2009 that questioned the effectiveness of vertebroplasty; uncertainty created by the pending reimbursement review of vertebral augmentation procedures by a few of Medicare’s local contractors; the issuance of clinical practice guidelines in September 2010 by the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons that did not support the use of vertebroplasty to treat vertebral compression fractures; the recent shift of vertebral augmentation procedures from the in-patient to the out-patient setting, which is outside of the historic call pattern of our sales force; overall negative economic conditions; and health care initiatives to reduce costs. Prior to and following the U.S. launch of Cortoss and Aliquot and in anticipation of significant product demand, we acquired significant inventory quantities of Aliquot from a third party supplier with requisite long manufacturing lead times. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a $3.5 million inventory charge primarily for Aliquot inventory that either was expected to expire prior to sale or was not expected to be sold based on our current projections of product demand. If we are unable to operate an effective sales and distribution network, our ability to generate sales and become profitable will be impaired. We have assembled a field sales network of direct sales representatives and independent non-stocking and stocking distributors and agents in the U.S. to market Vitoss, Imbibe, Cortoss, Aliquot, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure. Outside of the U.S., we utilize a network of independent stocking distributors to market Vitoss, Cortoss, Aliquot, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure, although we have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom. We are dependent upon our direct sales representatives, distributors and agents for the sale of our products. Any failure to maintain and effectively manage our distribution network will impair our ability to generate additional sales and become profitable. In an effort to optimize our sales in a challenging environment, in 2010 we began to increase the number of independent distributors selling our products. For example, to more effectively address the shift in vertebroplasty procedures to the out-patient setting and make an effort to increase Cortoss and Aliquot sales, we began to augment our direct sales efforts in the U.S. in 2010 with distributors that specialize in the out-patient market. We continue to identify and retain distributors and agents to sell our Vitoss and biosurgery products as well. During 2010, we also streamlined our direct sales force, which will continue to focus primarily on the in-patient spine and orthopedic market to leverage our customer relationships by marketing our biosurgery and orthobiologic products to all of our customers. Through an intense focus on our target physician audiences using a combination of our direct sales representatives, sales agents and distributors in a hybrid sales model, our goal is to regain sales momentum and growth in our Vitoss product platform while continuing to increase penetration of Cortoss products and growth of our biosurgery product sales. There can be no assurance that our hybrid sales model will be effective in growing sales or increasing gross profit. In an effort to further grow our sales, we plan to continue to strengthen our hybrid sales and distribution network by optimizing the number of direct sales representatives or adding distributors and sales agents in those territories or markets where we do not have adequate coverage. At the end of 2008, we added a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, which includes 6 direct sales representatives as of March 1, 2011. The addition of direct sales representatives will increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, there is no assurance that adding direct sales representatives or other selling entities will improve sales or result in the generation of sales sufficient to cover the cost of supporting their sales activities. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to market or sell our products or that we will successfully manage this type of sales and distribution method. There can be no assurance that our distributors will perform effectively their obligations in their respective territories or accounts as expected, or that we will continue to derive any revenue from these arrangements. We cannot assure that our interests will continue to coincide with those of our distributors. In addition, we cannot assure that our distributors will not develop independently, or with other companies, competitive products. Most of our product sales generated by independent U.S. distributors are from Vitoss. These distributors generally sell products for other orthopedic companies. A single distributor may sell Vitoss, as well as hardware manufactured by other orthopedic companies consisting of metal plates, screws and spinal cages, to end user hospitals. Our sales could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more of our successful distributors lost their hardware product line provided by other orthopedic companies since Vitoss is typically sold with such hardware products. Additionally, our independent distributors may be unwilling to carry or unable to effectively sell Vitoss as a result of the introduction of new products based upon other technologies that could compete with Vitoss. Our sales could be adversely affected if one or more of our successful distributors eliminated Vitoss from its product line for any other reason or terminated its arrangement with us. Our sales could also be adversely affected if our independent distributors become concerned that their arrangements with us could be eliminated as a result of another company’s offer or threat to acquire us. The complete product line represented by the distributors, including our products, is an important factor in the distributors’ ability to penetrate the markets for our products. Accordingly, our ability to penetrate the markets that we serve or intend to serve is highly dependent upon the quality and breadth of the other product lines carried by our distribution network, the components of which may change from time to time, and over which we have little or no control. 16 Table of Contents Pricing pressure may negatively impact our average sales prices for our products, which could reduce our revenue and gross margins. The market for our products is very competitive and increasingly subject to pricing pressures due to health care reform and efforts by health care providers to contain costs. Several of our competitors offering multiple product lines provide discounts on certain products such as bone graft substitutes in order to maintain pricing on other products in their portfolio such as hardware. We may also face pricing pressure as a result of the growing number of physician-owned distributors operating in the spine and orthopedic markets, as discussed below under the risk factor entitled, “If we cannot keep up with technological changes and marketing initiatives of competitors, including the growth of physician-owned distributors, sales of our products may be harmed.” As a result of these factors, we believe our products face growing pricing pressure in the near future. If competitive forces drive down the price we are able to charge for our products and we cannot reduce our expenses, our operating results will be adversely affected. If we do not manage commercial scale manufacturing capability and capacity for our products in compliance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner, our product sales and operating results may suffer. The manufacture of our products is subject to regulation and periodic inspection by various regulatory bodies for compliance with the FDA Quality System Regulation (the QSR), and EU Medical Devices Directive requirements, ISO 9001 standards, ISO/European Norm (EN) 13485 and equivalent requirements. We manufacture our commercial Vitoss, Vitagel and Cortoss products at our 25,800-square foot FDA-registered manufacturing facilities located in Malvern, Pennsylvania. These facilities are leased through July 2017 and are certified as meeting the requirements of ISO9001 and ISO/EN 13485. We also process collagen for Vitagel at our 4,000-square foot FDA-approved processing facility in Malvern, Pennsylvania. We are in the process of seeking regulatory approval of this collagen processing facility under the CE Mark, which would allow us to market in the European Union Vitagel utilizing collagen processed at our facility. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the QSR, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. We assumed full responsibility for manufacturing Vitagel in 2006 and CellPaker in 2007 after receiving the requisite approvals from the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with FDA requirements to continue to manufacture Vitoss, Cortoss, Vitagel or CellPaker, which could result in delay or inability to manufacture and sell the products. We believe our existing manufacturing facilities have the capacity to meet our commercial needs through at least 2013. Our third party manufacturers are also regulated by governmental agencies and are required to be EN 13485-certified or otherwise meet our quality system requirements. We manufacture CellPaker and Aliquot through outside third party contract manufacturers. Our Vitoss is converted to Vitoss Foam and Vitoss Bioactive Foam by Kensey, and we purchase Vitasure finished product from Medafor, which uses third party manufacturers to make the product. Our product sales depend upon, among other things, our ability to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner. There can be no assurance that regulatory authorities will not, during the course of an inspection of existing or new facilities, identify what they consider to be deficiencies in meeting the applicable quality standards and request or seek remedial action. Failure to comply with such regulations or a delay in attaining compliance may result in: • warning letters; • injunctions suspending the manufacture of products; • civil and criminal penalties; • refusal to grant premarket approvals or clearances, CE Certifications, CE Certification renewals, or clearances to products that are subject to future or pending submissions; • product recalls or seizures of products; • total or partial suspensions of production; and • refusal to permit the import or export of our products. The imposition of any of these sanctions could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Furthermore, if we or any of our third-party manufacturers cannot produce our products, our product sales would suffer. In addition, our gross profit margins may be adversely affected if our manufacturing facilities are under-utilized and result in excess manufacturing capacity charges which are recorded as a component of the cost of sales. 17 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of specialty suppliers of certain raw materials, and our business and financial results could be harmed if a specialty supplier no longer provides materials to us. Our ability to manufacture Vitoss, Cortoss and Vitagel and to have Vitoss Foam and Vitoss Bioactive Foam manufactured by and for us is dependent on a limited number of specialty suppliers of certain raw materials. We have several single-source suppliers for raw materials used in our products. The failure of a supplier to continue to provide us with these materials at a price or quality acceptable to us, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture these products. Although we believe that we maintain good relationships with our suppliers, we cannot assure that such supplies and services will continue to be available with respect to our current and future commercialized products. In addition, pursuant to our license agreement with Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, we may be obligated in the future, under certain circumstances, to provide CoStasis (an Angiotech-branded Vitagel product) and certain CoStasis materials to Angiotech. We also cannot assure that supply or manufacturing capability will be sufficient to meet our own needs and Angiotech’s needs if Angiotech elects to be supplied by us under our license agreement with them. Our collagen supply or manufacturing capabilities may be inadequate, and we may need to seek additional suppliers for CoStasis materials. We are dependent on a limited number of specialized manufacturing suppliers for certain products, and our business and financial results could be harmed if a third-party manufacturer fails to supply us with these products. We are dependent upon Kensey and other third-party manufacturers for the supply of certain products. Approximately 67% of our product sales during 2010 were from products based upon our Vitoss Foam platform co-developed with Kensey, including Vitoss Bioactive Foam. Our Vitoss is converted to Vitoss Foam and Vitoss Bioactive Foam by Kensey. We also manufacture certain delivery accessory products through third party specialty suppliers. There is no assurance that these manufacturers will continue to supply our requirements. If they fail to do so, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to engage another supplier for these products on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. A delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of these products may negatively impact our product sales. If we fail to obtain and maintain the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary to make or sell our products, sales could be delayed or never realized. The jurisdictions in which we seek to market our products regulate our products as medical devices. In most circumstances, we and our distributors and our agents must obtain regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications and otherwise comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, quality and efficacy standards. These regulations vary from country to country, and the regulatory review can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not obtain or maintain the regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications necessary to make or market our products in our targeted markets. Moreover, regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications that are obtained may involve significant restrictions on the anatomic sites and types of procedures for which our products can be used. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications. If we do not obtain or maintain regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications to enable us to make or market our products in the U.S. or elsewhere, or if the clearances, approvals and certifications are subject to significant restrictions, we may never generate significant revenues. The regulatory requirements in some of the jurisdictions where we currently market or intend to market our products are summarized below. United States Regulation by FDA. The FDA regulates the clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. To date, we have received 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market our Vitoss, Vitoss Foam, Vitoss Bioactive Foam, Vitoss Bioactive Foam-2X, Vitoss BA Bimodal, Imbibe and Cortoss products. Aliquot is exempt from 510(k) clearance. We market Vitoss, Imbibe, Cortoss, Aliquot, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure in the U.S., and we market Vitoss, Cortoss, Aliquot, Vitagel, CellPaker and Vitasure outside the U.S. We directly manufacture Vitoss, Cortoss, Vitagel and CellPaker in the U.S., and we manufacture Imbibe and Aliquot in the U.S. through outside third party contract manufacturers. In addition, under our agreement with Kensey, Kensey has the exclusive right to manufacture any approved or cleared jointly developed products under the agreement. This right extends until February 2014 for the Vitoss Foam product platform and at least until 2024 for the Vitoss Bioactive Foam product platform, which includes Vitoss Bioactive Foam-2X and Vitoss BA Bimodal. We purchase Vitasure from Medafor, which utilizes third party manufacturers to produce this product. Under our distribution agreement with Medafor, Medafor is responsible for maintaining regulatory approval and ensuring compliance with manufacturing requirements for Vitasure. Vitoss, Cortoss, Vitagel and Vitasure, as well as any other products that we manufacture or distribute following their approval or clearance by the FDA, will be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. In August 2010, the FDA issued two comprehensive evaluations containing recommendation to change its regulatory review of medical devices. One report focused on ways to strengthen and clarify the premarket review or 510(k) process for medical devices that do not need to undergo a full premarket approval review. 18 Table of Contents The other report evaluated FDA’s use of science in decision-making. These reports were prepared and issued in response to concerns raised both inside and outside of the FDA about whether the current 510(k) program achieves its goals of making safe and effective devices available to the public while fostering innovation. Concerns about the program have centered on whether it allows devices to enter the market without sufficient safety and effectiveness evidence and whether a lack of predictability, consistency, and transparency is hindering device development. Following issue of these reports, FDA solicited public feedback on the content and subsequently developed a plan containing 25 actions it intends to implement during 2011 to improve the 510(k) process. Key actions include: 1) Streamlining the “de novo” review process for certain innovative, lower-risk medical devices; 2) Clarifying when clinical data should be submitted in a premarket submission, guidance that will increase the efficiency and transparency of the review process; and 3) Establishing a new Center Science Council of senior FDA experts to assure timely and consistent science-based decision making. FDA seeks to implement more changes after obtaining additional feedback from the public and the Institute of Medicine. These changes to the 510(k) program may significantly alter the review process for our products, and may increase the amount of pre-clinical and clinical data required to obtain product clearances and approvals. European Union and Other International Markets General. International sales of medical devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are sold. Accordingly, the introduction of our products in markets outside the United States subject our products to regulatory approvals or clearances in those jurisdictions. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. Many countries impose product standards, packaging, labeling and language requirements and import restrictions on medical devices. In addition, the EU and each country outside of the EU have its own tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The approval or clearance of our products by foreign government authorities is uncertain and can be expensive. Our ability to market our products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. Requirement of CE Certification in the European Union. To market a product in the European Union, we must be entitled to affix to that product a CE mark, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. A CE mark, preceded by the relevant certification process, enables us to market a product in all of the countries of the European Union, as well as in other countries, such as Switzerland and Turkey, that have mutual recognition agreements with the EU or have adopted the European Union’s regulatory standards. To date, we have received CE mark approval for the use of Vitoss as a bone graft substitute, for the use of Cortoss in screw augmentation and vertebral augmentation procedures, for Vitagel as a surgical hemostat and for certain delivery accessories for Vitoss, Cortoss and Vitagel. Vitasure has CE mark approval for use as a surgical hemostat. There can be no assurance that we will maintain CE mark approval for our products or that we will receive CE mark approval for other devices. After clearance or approval of our products, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. If we fail to comply with FDA regulations, our business could suffer. Even after clearance or approval of a product, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including the requirements that our facility be registered and our devices listed with the agency. We are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. We must report corrections and removals to the FDA where the correction or removal was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act caused by the device that may present a risk to health, and maintain records of other corrections or removals. The FDA closely regulates promotion and advertising. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees or civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or new intended uses of our existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents We have modified some of our products without FDA clearance. The FDA could retroactively determine that the modifications were improper and require us to stop marketing and recall the modified products until such clearance is obtained. Any modification to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance; any change that affects the safety or effectiveness of a PMA approved device requires a premarket approval supplement. We have made modifications to some of our products in the past, and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe, based upon FDA’s regulations and guidance, do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, we could be required to obtain new clearances or approvals for the modifications. We also may be required to recall and to stop marketing modified products until such clearance or approval is obtained, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data to support these supplementary submissions, depending on the nature of the changes. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our operating results. If we cannot keep up with technological changes and marketing initiatives of competitors, or if we are unable to effectively compete with the growing number of physician-owned distributors, sales of our products may be harmed. Extensive research efforts and rapid technological change characterize the market for products in the orthopedic and biomaterials markets. We anticipate that we will face intense competition from medical device, medical products and pharmaceutical companies. There are many products that are competitive to our Vitoss platform products. For instance, the use of bone morphogenic proteins, or BMPs, in orthopedic surgery has increased significantly in the past five years and competitive stem cell products have recently entered the market, a trend we expect to continue. With respect to Cortoss, several PMMA bone cements have received 510(k) clearance since 2004 for vertebral augmentation of VCFs. Further, recombinant human thrombin was approved by the FDA in 2008 and may be positioned as a better alternative to bovine-derived thrombin, a raw material in our Vitagel product. Our products could be rendered uncompetitive or obsolete by these and other competitors’ new technologies. We may be unable to respond to technological advances by others through the development and introduction of new products or the modification of existing products. Moreover, many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution, manufacturing and technological resources than us. These competitors may be in the process of seeking FDA or other regulatory approvals or clearances, or patent protection, for competitive products. Our competitors could, therefore, commercialize competing products in advance of our products. They may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of: • research and development expertise; • experience in conducting clinical trials; • experience in regulatory matters; • manufacturing efficiency; • name recognition; • sales and marketing expertise; • established distribution channels; and • established relationships with health care providers and payers. These advantages may adversely affect our plans for market acceptance of our products. Further, we may face increasing competition from physician-owned distributors, or PODs, the number of which has grown in the past several years. PODs are entities in the medical device supply chain that derive a proportion of their revenue from selling or arranging for the sale of medical devices ordered by physician-investors for use in procedures they perform on their own patients at hospitals that agreed to purchase from or through the POD, or that otherwise furnish ordering physicians with income that is based directly or indirectly on those orders of medical devices. We believe that the number of PODs in the spine and orthopedic markets will continue to grow as economic pressures increase through the industry, hospitals, insurers and physicians search for ways to reduce costs, and medical device manufacturers seek ways to maintain or grow market share. If health care providers cannot obtain third party reimbursement for procedures using our products, or if such reimbursement is inadequate, our product sales may be adversely affected and we may never become profitable. Successful sales of our products in the United States and other markets depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third party payers. Inadequate reimbursement by private insurance companies and government programs could significantly reduce usage of our products. In the U.S., health care providers such as hospitals, physicians and ambulatory surgical centers generally 20 Table of Contents rely on third party payers, including private insurance companies, Health Maintenance Organizations, Medicare and Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the costs of procedures using our products. Health care providers may not perform certain procedures and, accordingly, may not purchase our products, if they do not receive satisfactory reimbursement from these payers. Each payer has its own process and standards for determining whether it will cover and reimburse a procedure or particular product. Private payers often follow the lead of the governmental payers in rendering coverage and reimbursement determinations. Therefore, achieving favorable Medicare coverage and reimbursement is a significant issue for successful introduction of a new product as well as for maintaining or growing sales of existing products. The Medicare program has established, and continues to establish, standards and guidelines for the coverage and reimbursement of certain procedures, equipment, supplies and other items and services. Medicare’s coverage decisions can be made on a nationwide basis or at the local contractor level, and coverage of an item or service can be reconsidered at any time. Decisions to limit coverage of our products could significantly reduce use of our products, particularly if other payers adopt similar policies. Several of Medicare’s contractors have policies governing coverage of our products or procedures using our products, including vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty. In July 2008, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) identified vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty, procedures for which our Cortoss product is cleared for use, as one of twenty potential national coverage determination topics. Although CMS has taken no further action nationally since that time, the use of vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty is currently under a coverage review by a few of Medicare’s local contractors. We expect that these local contractors will issue their coverage determination in 2011. Any changes in legislation, regulations and policy affecting Medicare coverage and reimbursement relative to our products could have a material effect on our results of operations. Changes in the health care industry in the United States and elsewhere also could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. Significantly, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) enacted into federal law in 2010 requires most individuals to have health insurance, establishes new regulations on health plans, creates insurance pooling mechanisms, and requires other expanded public health care measures. This legislation will also reduce Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers. Various health care reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what health care initiatives, if any, will be further implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that recently enacted legislation or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has placed, and we believe will continue to place, greater pressure on medical device pricing. Such pressures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or to operate profitably. If we do not successfully train a sufficient number of surgeons to use our products, demand for our products could be adversely affected. It is critical to the commercial success of our products that our independent distributors and direct sales representatives succeed in training a sufficient number of surgeons and in providing them adequate instruction in the use of our products. This training requires a commitment of time and money by surgeons which they may be unwilling to give. Even if surgeons are willing, if they are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could damage our business, reduce product sales and subject us to claims and other liabilities. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the “off-label” use of our medical devices. The unapproved or “off-label” use of our products could also adversely affect the reputation of our products and our company. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from labeling, training, or promoting our products for off-label uses. This prohibition means that we cannot proactively discuss or provide information or training on the use of our products outside of their cleared or approved uses, except in certain limited scientific and other settings. In the practice of medicine, physicians may use devices for off-label uses. Because the interpretation of these requirements is subjective, the FDA could deem some of our activities as promotional even when we believe in good faith that such activities were not promotional. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Enforcement measures taken against us could harm our business and our reputation. The medical devices that we manufacture and market, or intend to market, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the European Union Medical Devices Directive and other worldwide regulatory agencies. In order to market our products, we must apply for, receive and maintain all necessary regulatory approvals or clearances in each applicable jurisdiction for specified uses of the products. Under FDA regulations and laws of other countries, we are only permitted to commercially distribute our products for approved indication(s) or use(s); failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to FDA and other enforcement action. 21 Table of Contents Cortoss received CE Certification in January 2003 for use in repairing vertebral compression fractures, and in October 2001 for use in screw augmentation procedures. However, surgeons may have attempted to use Cortoss “off-label” in procedures to repair vertebral compression fractures performed prior to the European Union’s approval of Cortoss for this type of procedure. Furthermore, not all surgeons have been trained in the proper use of Cortoss to repair vertebral compression fractures. A surgeon who has not been properly trained to use Cortoss in a procedure to repair vertebral compression fractures could pose a risk to the reputation of our Cortoss product. In addition, the occurrence of an adverse event while using our product “off-label” in procedures other than the repair of vertebral compression fractures or screw augmentation could adversely affect the reputation of Cortoss or any of our other products as well as us and could subject us to liability. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal, civil, and/or administrative sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans’ health programs. Although we seek to structure our business practices to be in compliance with applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written and broadly interpreted, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied in specific circumstances. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal review of us, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and time consuming. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficulties of operating in international markets may harm sales of our products. Our sales outside the U.S. totaled $5.2 million in 2010. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate, and in which our products are sold and used. The types of risks that we face in international operations include: • the imposition of governmental controls; • logistical difficulties in managing international operations; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales and operations may be limited or disrupted if we cannot successfully meet the challenges of operating internationally. We may acquire technologies, products or businesses in the future, and these acquisitions could result in disruption of our business, increased costs and dilution to our shareholders. An acquisition of assets, products or another business entails risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business, and could divert management attention. We also could fail to assimilate the acquired business or company, which could lead to higher operating expenses. In addition, certain acquired technology could require significant additional development work and efforts to obtain regulatory clearance or approval, which could cause us to incur significant expense or to expend significant amounts of cash. Further, any acquired product may not provide the intended complementary fit with our existing product portfolio. Our shareholders could also be diluted if we issue shares of our stock to acquire another company, business or technology. Our business could suffer if we cannot attract and retain the services of key employees. We depend substantially upon the continued service and performance of our existing executive officers. We rely on key personnel in formulating and implementing our product research, development and commercialization strategies. Our success will 22 Table of Contents depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. If one or more of our key employees resigns, the loss of that employee could harm our business. If we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees, or successfully prevent them from competing against us despite our use of confidentiality and non-compete agreements. Negative economic conditions may adversely affect our sales, business or cash flows. The current economic conditions and recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. The impact of these conditions could result in a number of follow-on adverse effects on our business, liquidity and results of operations, including but not limited to: • the inability of one or more of our key suppliers to obtain credit to finance their operations or the insolvency of one or more of our key suppliers, which could adversely affect our product supply and reduce our sales; • the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies, which could reduce our sales and collectability of our receivables; • an unwillingness or inability of our current or potential business partners to continue existing collaborations or enter into transactions with us; • a negative impact on our current investment portfolio; and • our inability to raise funds through equity or debt financings that may be necessary in the future for various purposes, including acquisitions of products, technologies or other companies. There was a slowdown in the market during 2010 for spine procedures, which we believe contributed to lower sales growth for our products in 2010. Further, U.S. unemployment remains at relatively high levels. If patients become unemployed and lose health insurance previously obtained through their employers’ plans, or elect to defer undergoing surgery in a soft employment market, we could continue to see a decrease in elective surgeries that use our products, which would adversely affect our sales and could result in write offs of excess inventory and additional excess manufacturing capacity charges. Health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and financial position. The United States enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) into law in 2010 in order to expand access to health insurance and reduce the cost of health care. The PPACA will require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms, and other expanded public health care measures, in addition to reducing Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other healthcare providers. An expansion in government’s role in the U.S. health care industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business. In addition, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control health care costs. Moreover, as discussed below, the PPACA would impose significant new taxes on medical device makers such as us. The implementation of the PPACA and other legislation may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. With respect to our industry in particular, the PPACA imposes a new 2.3 percent tax on the sale after December 31, 2012 of a taxable medical device by the manufacturer, producer or importer. This tax could negatively impact our cash flow from operations and delay our ability to become profitable or, if we become profitable, this tax could reduce our profitability. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCING If our losses continue in the long term, they could limit our growth and jeopardize our viability. We have experienced negative operating cash flows from inception through 2009 and experienced nominal positive operating cash flow in 2010. We have funded our operations primarily from proceeds received from sales of our securities and borrowings under a debt facility. In November and December 2006, we raised approximately $26.6 million in net proceeds from the sale of approximately 8.8 million shares of our common stock to institutional investors. In July 2007, we sold approximately 12.3 million shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $32.2 million. In addition, in July 2007, we entered into a senior secured note purchase facility under which we have issued $35.0 million of our 10% senior secured notes due July 30, 2012. To date, we have not been profitable. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and at December 31, 2010, had an accumulated deficit of $186.6 million. These losses have resulted principally from: • the development and patenting of our technologies; 23 Table of Contents • pre-clinical and clinical studies; • preparation of submissions to the FDA and foreign regulatory bodies; • the development of manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities; and • the repurchase of a revenue interest from Royalty Securitization Trust I in July 2007. We may incur operating losses in the future unless or until we can consistently leverage our product portfolio, our direct sales force, our manufacturing capacity and our product development capability to generate product sales in amounts that exceed our cost of sales and operating expenses. We may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future, and our products may never be commercially accepted or generate sufficient product sales to fund operations. While we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $22.4 million as of December 31, 2010 together with expected positive cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently estimated operating and investing requirements for the foreseeable future, we will need to repay or refinance our outstanding senior secured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million by July 30, 2012, as discussed above. We are currently seeking to refinance this obligation; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to execute this refinancing and, if we are able to refinance this indebtedness, that the terms of such a refinancing would be equal to or better than the terms of the existing senior secured note facility. In addition, we are required to pay a prepayment premium in the event that we refinance this obligation prior to July 30, 2012. The amount of the prepayment premium depends on the timing of the prepayment and decreases over time. Assuming we repaid this obligation in full on March 31, 2011, the prepayment premium would be approximately $1.9 million. Additionally, our cash flows and cash resources would be negatively impacted if we elected to repay the existing outstanding principal indebtedness with a combination of our existing cash and cash equivalents and new borrowings. If we default under our senior secured note purchase facility, we may be required to repay amounts due under the facility, and we may incur additional interest and prepayment penalties. If we are unable to repay amounts due under the note facility, the lender could foreclose on certain assets that are essential to our operations. We have $35.0 million in outstanding principal indebtedness under a senior secured note purchase facility. Notes issued under the facility are due July 30, 2012. We initially issued $25.0 million principal amount of our 10% senior secured notes under the facility and used most of the proceeds to repurchase a revenue interest obligation. On July 31, 2008 we issued an additional $10.0 million principal amount of notes under the facility primarily to fund our acquisition of the collagen raw material, equipment and technology license from Allergan. In connection with borrowings made under the facility, the note purchaser received five-year warrants, expiring in 2012, to purchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $3.41 per share, which are currently exercisable and outstanding. Borrowings under the facility are guaranteed by us and one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. The facility is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets (including intellectual property) other than those exclusively related to Cortoss and Aliquot. We are required to make quarterly interest only payments to the note holder. Outstanding principal amounts under the notes bear annual interest at 10%, provided that interest would accrue at 12% per year during the continuance of any event of default and would be payable on demand. Based on the amount outstanding under the facility as of December 31, 2010, we will incur quarterly interest expense of $875,000 during 2011. The unpaid principal amount under the notes and accrued interest and all other obligations would become due and payable immediately if we are insolvent, are in bankruptcy proceedings or have a custodian or receiver appointed for any substantial part of our property. If an event of default not described in the preceding sentence occurs and is continuing (including a change of control of the Company), then the holders of at least two-thirds in principal amount of notes then outstanding may declare the unpaid principal amount of the notes, accrued interest and all other obligations due and payable immediately. In addition, if the notes become due and payable, whether automatically or by declaration, by reason of any of the following events of default, then we must pay a prepayment premium of up to approximately $1.9 million, depending on the timing of the prepayment: • we fail to pay any principal on any note or prepayment premiums, if any, when due and payable; • we fail to pay any interest on any note or other amount (other than principal or prepayment premiums) for more than three business days after becoming due and payable; • we are insolvent, in bankruptcy proceedings or have a custodian or receiver appointed for any substantial part of our property; or • a change of control of our company occurs. Under the facility, we must comply with various financial and non-financial covenants. For example, we are required to maintain a minimum cash balance equal to at least 25% of the then outstanding principal amount under the notes in a separate account that is pledged as collateral for the loan. As of December 31, 2010, we must maintain a minimum cash balance of $8.75 million. In addition, if the balance in the separate account falls below an amount equal to 40% of the principal amount outstanding under the 24 Table of Contents notes, we must obtain and maintain for the benefit of favor of the note holder a letter of credit in the amount of 25% of the principal amount outstanding under the notes. As of December 31, 2010, we must maintain a minimum balance of $14 million in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in order to avoid obtaining a letter of credit. Currently we are not required to obtain a letter of credit. The primary non-financial covenants limit our ability to incur indebtedness or liens, sell assets, conduct mergers or acquisitions, make investments and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2010, we had $35.0 million outstanding under the facility, had accrued $875,000 in interest thereon, and were in compliance with all covenants under the facility. Based on our current operating plans, we expect to be in compliance with the covenants under the facility within the next twelve months from the date of filing of this report. However, if we default under the facility and cannot repay amounts then due, the lender could foreclose on the pledged assets, we could be forced into bankruptcy and we could be otherwise harmed. We are currently seeking to refinance this obligation; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to execute this refinancing or, if we are able to refinance this indebtedness, that the terms of such a refinancing would be equal to or better than the terms of the current note purchase facility. In addition, we are required to pay a prepayment premium and we expect to recognize additional costs in the event that we refinance this obligation prior to July 30, 2012. The amount of the prepayment premium depends on the timing of the prepayment and decreases over time. At December 31, 2010, the prepayment premium would have been approximately $2.2 million. Assuming we repaid this indebtedness in full on March 31, 2011, the prepayment premium would be approximately $1.9 million. This prepayment premium would negatively impact our cash flows and cash resources. Additionally, our cash flows and cash resources would be negatively impacted if we elected to repay the existing outstanding principal indebtedness with a combination of our existing cash and cash equivalents and new borrowings. In addition to the prepayment premium, if we repay this indebtedness in full or in part prior to July 30, 2012, we would be required to write-off the unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs remaining on our balance sheet at the date of such refinancing and recognize a non-cash loss. Assuming this debt was fully repaid on March 31, 2011, we would expect to recognize a charge of approximately $2.5 million in connection with the early extinguishment of debt. We may seek to obtain additional funds through equity and or debt financings, or strategic alliances with third parties either alone or in combination. This could adversely affect our financial condition and cause dilution to our existing shareholders. There are factors that may cause our future capital requirements to be greater than anticipated or could accelerate our need for funds including, without limitation: • inability to increase sales of our cleared or approved products; • unforeseen difficulties in operating an effective direct sales and distribution network; • delayed, insufficient or lack of market acceptance of our products; • unanticipated expenditures in research and product development or manufacturing activities; • unforeseen changes in health care reimbursement for procedures using our products; • unforeseen developments during our pre-clinical and clinical trials; • unanticipated expenditures in the acquisition, enforcement and defense of intellectual property rights; • inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to create demand for our products; • lack of financial resources to adequately support our operations; • difficulties in maintaining commercial scale manufacturing capacity and capability; • unforeseen problems with our third party manufacturers and service providers or with our specialty suppliers of certain raw materials; • delays in the timing of receipt of required regulatory approvals or clearances to make or sell our products; • unanticipated difficulties in operating in international markets; • the need to respond to technological changes and increased competition; • unforeseen problems in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to market our products; • enactment of new legislation or administrative regulation or changes in the regulatory climate affecting our products or the markets in which we compete; • the application to our business of new court decisions and regulatory interpretations; 25 Table of Contents • claims that might be brought in excess of our insurance coverage; • any imposition of penalties for failure to comply with regulatory guidelines; and • management’s perception that uncertainties relating to these factors may be increasing. In addition, we may seek to expand our operations and product portfolio through acquisitions or joint ventures. Any such acquisitions or joint ventures may increase our capital requirements. We cannot be certain that funding will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of current economic conditions. Any public or private financings may involve issuances of debt or common stock or other classes of our equity, which could further dilute existing shareholders’ percentage ownership. If we are unable to obtain funding to support operations, we may be forced to curtail our operations or be unable to develop products. We are required annually, or on an interim basis as needed, to review the carrying value of our long-lived assets for impairment. Our long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and intangible assets. If sales of our products decline because of, for example, competition or an inability to manufacture sufficient supply of product, the value of our long-lived assets could become impaired. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $16.8 million of property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, and $9.9 million of license and technology intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization. Our property and equipment consist primarily of assets used to manufacture Vitoss, Vitagel and Cortoss. Our intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, consist of (i) $5.6 million for our prepayment in December 2006 of the profit-sharing license royalties on Vitagel and CellPaker, (ii) $3.9 million recorded for the value of the collagen-processing technology license acquired from Allergan in the third quarter of 2008 and (iii) $0.4 million recorded for the value of a license acquired from a business partner related to the development of a new product. If a change in circumstances causes us to lower our future sales forecast for our products, we may be required to write off a portion or all of the net book value of the affected property and equipment or intangible assets associated with that product. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset against the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by this asset. If the sum of the expected future net cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset being evaluated, an impairment charge would be recognized. The impairment charge would be calculated as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment charge to our net intangible assets, depending on the size, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LITIGATION Our business will be damaged if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to our products, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims by others. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. For example, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. As of March 1, 2011, we own or control 24 issued U.S. patents and 20 pending patent applications in the U.S., and counterparts of certain of these patents and pending patent applications worldwide, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Israel and Japan. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any of the pending patent applications. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or we were the first to file patent applications for the relevant inventions for the following reasons: • patent applications filed prior to December 2000 in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until issued; • patent applications filed after November 2000 in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until 18 months after the date of filing; and • the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. If we do receive a patent, it may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary position in the technology or to be commercially useful to us. In addition, if we lose certain key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Even if our intellectual property rights are adequately protected, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and divert management attention. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, our competitors could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products and compete more directly with us, which could damage our business. 26 Table of Contents In addition to the risk of failing to adequately protect our proprietary rights, there is a risk that we may become subject to a claim that we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Although we do not believe that we are infringing the rights of others, third parties may claim that we are doing so. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry generally, and in the spinal market segments particularly. If the holder of a proprietary right brought an infringement action against us, the cost of litigating the claim could be substantial and divert management attention. In addition, if a court determined that one of our products infringed a proprietary right, we could be prevented from selling that product unless we could obtain a license from the owner of the right. Such a license may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Modification of our products or development of new products to avoid infringement may require us to conduct additional clinical trials for these modified or new products and to revise our filings with the FDA, which is time consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our product, our business could suffer. We have obtained certain of our intellectual property rights and our rights to develop and commercialize certain products, and made certain commitments regarding our intellectual property and these rights, through license and development agreements with third parties. These agreements generally may be terminated by our counterparty if we materially breach any of our obligations under the agreement. We may disagree with these third parties as to our and their obligations under the agreements or the interpretation of provisions in the agreements. Any such disagreements could cause these third parties to seek to terminate our rights under the particular agreement. If any of our agreements were terminated, we could lose the rights to the product, product candidate or intellectual property covered by the agreement, reducing our revenue, potential revenues and significantly harming our business. Whether or not such a termination were proper, if a dispute arises under any of our agreements, the need to resolve the dispute could consume significant resources and divert management’s time and attention. We distribute Vitasure, which we purchase from Medafor and is manufactured by third parties on behalf of Medafor. Medafor and these third parties have patents, licenses, and proprietary technologies related to Vitasure. We cannot be certain that no one will challenge the validity or enforceability of any patent that they own. We cannot be certain that if anyone does make such a challenge, that these third parties will be able to successfully defend that challenge, with or without our assistance. In addition, others may infringe these third parties’ patents or use their proprietary rights inappropriately. If others infringe patents owned or licensed by these third parties and related to Vitasure, we may choose to assist in bringing an infringement action and may incur substantial costs in any efforts to uphold the validity and prevent infringement of a patent or to protect proprietary technologies and methods. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies, duplicate technologies, design around the patented aspects of such technologies, or attempt to duplicate their proprietary technologies that have no patent protection. In addition, we cannot be sure that these third parties’ technologies will not infringe patents or other rights owned by others. If we are sued in a product liability action, we could be forced to incur substantial defense costs, pay substantial damages and the attention of our management team may be diverted from operating our business. We manufacture medical devices that are used on patients in surgery, and we may be subject to product liability lawsuits. In particular, the market for spine products has a history of product liability litigation. Under certain of our agreements with our distributors and hospital customers, we indemnify the distributor or hospital from product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims and would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. We maintain product liability insurance in the annual aggregate amount of up to $20 million, although our insurance policies have various exclusions. Thus, we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case we may have to pay the entire amount of any defense costs, award or settlement. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we may decide to carry a lesser amount of this insurance or to not carry this type of insurance. A meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention from our core business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any product liability claim – even if unsuccessful – could adversely affect our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and the market for our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO INVESTING IN OUR STOCK AND EQUITY MARKETS Our stock price may be volatile for many reasons, including fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors out of our control. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, which could adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or shareholders’ ability to sell our shares. Our stock price may fluctuate due to fluctuations in our results of operations or for other reasons. Future levels of our product sales and the timing of regulatory clearances and product introductions are difficult to predict, and product sales to date may not be indicative of future sales levels. We currently sell Vitagel and CellPaker under a license agreement, the termination of which would have a material adverse effect on our sales revenues. Our results of 27 Table of Contents operations may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of additional factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the medical community’s acceptance of our products; • pricing pressures faced by our products and industry; • the public perception of our company and the reputation of our business practices and products; • maintaining adequate commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; • disruptions with the manufacturing of our products, including with respect to our third party manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials; • difficulties in establishing and expanding our sales and distribution channels; • the mix of our products as profit margins differ between our products; • the timing of governmental approvals or clearances for our products and our competitors’ products; • the timing of product introductions by us or our competitors; • third party reimbursement of our products; • unanticipated events associated with clinical and pre-clinical trials of our products; • product recalls; • the success of competitive products; • our ability to enter into strategic alliances with other companies; • expenses associated with development and protection of intellectual property matters; • events affecting logistics and elective surgery trends; • the timing of expenses related to commercialization of new products; • competitive disruptions to our sales and distribution channels; • fluctuations in sales levels, which may be caused by seasonality of elective surgeries, the timing of orders from hospitals or distributor stocking orders, and other factors; • news concerning economic or market conditions in the general economy or within our industry, or the movement of capital into or out of our industry; • changes in U.S. or foreign government regulations impacting our industry; • the adequate training of a sufficient number of surgeons in the use of our products; and • the timing of governmental approvals or clearances for us to manufacture the products we sell. The results of our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may not meet expectations of securities analysts and investors. This may also cause our stock price to be volatile. In general, equity markets, including NASDAQ, have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, including the following factors, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock: • changes in the financial guidance we provide to the investment community; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our stock; • sales by existing holders of significant numbers of shares of our stock into the market, including sales by the three institutional investors that we believe held approximately one-third of our outstanding shares at or about December 31, 2010; • FDA and international regulatory actions regarding us or our competitors; • determinations by governments and insurance companies regarding reimbursement for medical procedures using our or our competitors’ products; • product sales growth rates; • public perception of our company and the reputation of our business practices and products; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or by others; 28 Table of Contents • changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • business conditions affecting other medical device companies or the medical device industry generally; • general market conditions, particularly for companies with small market capitalizations; and • pending or threatened offers to acquire us. 29 Table of Contents Provisions of Pennsylvania law or our Articles of Incorporation may deter a third party from seeking to obtain control of us or may affect your rights as a shareholder. Certain provisions of Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation enable our board of directors to issue up to 19,998,100 shares of preferred stock having rights, privileges and preferences as are determined by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the common shareholders; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the availability for future sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $3.54 per share; restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to employees and/or directors under our equity compensation plan for an aggregate 0.2 million shares of our common stock; and warrants to purchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $3.41 per share, which expire in July 2012. In order to attract and retain key personnel, we may issue additional securities, including stock options, restricted stock grants and shares of common stock, in connection with our equity compensation plan. The sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing shareholders pursuant to an effective registration statement or under Rule 144, through the exercise of registration rights or the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 