Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe Company faces a variety of risks that could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations.The risks faced by the Company include the following:Our ability to achieve consistent profitability is subject to uncertainty due to the nature of our businesses and the markets in which we operate. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 we recorded net income of $15.0 million, compared to net income of $37.3 million in 2011, net income of $5.4 million in 2010 (which included a $7.0 million extraordinary loss related to purchase price adjustments and the correction of immaterial errors on the FCStone transaction), and net income of $27.6 million in 2009 (which included an $18.5 million extraordinary gain related to the FCStone transaction in 2009).Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future because of the following factors:•Market conditions, such as price levels and volatility in the commodities, securities and foreign exchange markets in which we operate;•Changes in the volume of our market making and trading activities;•Changes in the value of our financial instruments, currency and commodities positions and our ability to manage related risks;•The level and volatility of interest rates;•The availability and cost of funding and capital;•Our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses;•Changes in execution and clearing fees;•The addition or loss of sales or trading professionals;•Changes in legal and regulatory requirements; and•General economic and political conditions.Although we are continuing our efforts to diversify the sources of our revenues, it is likely that our revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate substantially in the future and such fluctuations could result in losses. These losses could have 12Table of Contentsa material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The manner in which we account for our commodities inventory and forward commitments may increase the volatility of our reported earnings. Our net income is subject to volatility due to the manner in which we report our commodities inventory. This inventory is stated at the lower of cost or fair value. The Company generally mitigates the price risk associated with its commodities inventory through the use of derivatives. This price risk mitigation does not generally qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. In such situations, any unrealized gains in inventory are not recognized under U.S. GAAP, but unrealized gains and losses in related derivative positions are recognized under U.S. GAAP. Additionally, in certain circumstances, U.S. GAAP does not require us to reflect changes in estimated values of forward commitments to purchase and sell commodities. The forward commitments to purchase and sell commodities, which the Company does not reflect within the consolidated balance sheets, do not qualify as a derivative under the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the ASC. As a result, the Company’s reported earnings from these business segments are subject to greater volatility than the earnings from our other business segments.Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. As of September 30, 2012, our total consolidated indebtedness to lenders was $218.2 million, and we expect to increase our indebtedness in the future as we continue to expand our business. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the securities industry; and•restricting our ability to pay dividends or make other payments.We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.Committed credit facilities currently available to the Company might not be renewed. We currently have four committed credit facilities under which we may borrow up to $385.0 million, consisting of:•a $140.0 million facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, INTL Commodities, for its commodities trading activities, committed until January 31, 2013.•a $95.0 million facility available to INTL FCStone Inc. and INTL Global Currencies, for general working capital requirements, committed until October 1, 2013.•a $75.0 million facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, FCStone, LLC, for short-term funding of margin to commodity exchanges, committed until April 11, 2013.•a $75.0 million committed facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, FCStone Merchant Services, LLC, for financing traditional commodity financing arrangements and commodity repurchase agreements, committed until May 31, 2013.During fiscal 2013, or shortly thereafter, $385 million of the Company's committed credit facilities are scheduled to expire. We are currently in discussions with current and potential lenders to renew, extend or rearrange these facilities. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in renewing, extending or rearranging these facilities. It is possible that these facilities might not be renewed at the end of their commitment periods and that we will be unable to replace them with other facilities. If our credit facilities are unavailable or insufficient to support future levels of business activities, we may need to raise additional funds externally, either in the form of debt or equity. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements, leading to reduced profitability.The failure of the Company to successfully integrate the operations of businesses acquired by the Company in the last twelve months could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Since September 30, 2011, the Company has acquired several businesses, including the Metals Division of MF Global UK Limited, TRX Futures Limited and Aporte DTVM. Additionally, subsequent to September 30, 2012 the Company has acquired Tradewire Securities, LLC. We will need to meet challenges to realize the expected benefits and synergies of these acquisitions. These challenges include:•integrating the management teams, strategies, cultures, technologies and operations of the acquired companies;•retaining and assimilating the key personnel of acquired companies;•retaining existing clients of the acquired companies;•creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and•achieving revenue growth because of risks involving (1) the ability to retain clients, (2) the ability to sell the services and products of the acquired companies to the existing clients of our other business segments, and (3) the ability to sell 13Table of Contentsthe services and products of our other business segments to the existing clients of the acquired companies.The accomplishment of these objectives will involve considerable risk, including:•the potential disruption of each company’s ongoing business and distraction of their respective management teams;•unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; and•potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisition.It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of the technical skills and management expertise of key employees, the disruption of the ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies due to possible cultural conflicts or differences of opinions on technical decisions and product road maps that adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, software developers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.We face risks associated with our market making and trading activities. We conduct our market-making and trading activities predominantly as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities involve the purchase, sale or short sale for customers and for our own account of financial instruments, including equity and debt securities, commodities and foreign exchange. These activities are subject to a number of risks, including risks of price fluctuations, rapid changes in the liquidity of markets and counterparty creditworthiness.These risks may limit our ability to either resell financial instruments we purchased or to repurchase securities we sold in these transactions. In addition, we may experience difficulty borrowing financial instruments to make delivery to purchasers to whom we sold short, or lenders from whom we have borrowed. From time to time, we have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers in specific countries and markets. This concentration could result in higher trading losses than would occur if our positions and activities were less concentrated.The success of our market-making activities depends on:•the price volatility of specific financial instruments, currencies and commodities,•our ability to attract order flow;•the skill of our personnel;•the availability of capital; and•general market conditions.To attract market-trading, market-making and trading business, we must be competitive in:•providing enhanced liquidity to our customers;•the efficiency of our order execution;•the sophistication of our trading technology; and•the quality of our customer service.In our role as a market maker and trader, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell financial instruments, currencies and commodities. However, competitive forces often require us to:•match the quotes other market makers display; and•hold varying amounts of financial instruments, currencies and commodities in inventory.By having to maintain inventory positions, we are subject to a high degree of risk. We cannot ensure that we will be able to manage our inventory risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We operate as a principal in the OTC derivatives markets which involves the risks associated with commodity derivative instruments. We offer OTC derivatives to our customers in which we act as a principal counterparty. We endeavor to simultaneously offset the commodity price risk of the instruments by establishing corresponding offsetting positions with commodity counterparties, or alternatively we may offset those transactions with similar but not identical positions on an exchange. To the extent that we are unable to simultaneously offset an open position or the offsetting transaction is not fully effective to eliminate the commodity derivative risk, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched transactions. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered, and the amount of time the positions remain open.To the extent an unhedged position is not disposed of intra-day, adverse movements in the commodities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a substantial loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period.Transactions involving OTC derivative contracts may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the level, volatility, correlation or relationship between market prices, rates, indices and/or other factors. These types of instruments may also suffer from illiquidity in the market or in a related market.14Table of ContentsOTC derivative transactions are subject to unique risks. OTC derivative transactions are subject to the risk that, as a result of mismatches or delays in the timing of cash flows due from or to counterparties in OTC derivative transactions or related hedging, trading, collateral or other transactions, we or our counterparty may not have adequate cash available to fund its current obligations.We could incur material losses pursuant to OTC derivative transactions because of inadequacies in or failures of our internal systems and controls for monitoring and quantifying the risk and contractual obligations associated with OTC derivative transactions and related transactions or for detecting human error, systems failure or management failure.OTC derivative transactions may be modified or terminated only by mutual consent of the original parties and subject to agreement on individually negotiated terms. Accordingly it may not be possible to modify, terminate or offset obligations or exposure to the risk associated with a transaction prior to its scheduled termination date.The global financial crisis that started in 2008 has heightened many of the risks to which the Company is exposed. These risks have been further exacerbated by the current sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The financial crisis that started in 2008 has increased many of the risks that accompany the Company’s business, including the risk of counterparty failure, the inability to obtain necessary financing and the absence of liquid markets. During 2012, these risks were increased due to the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. Although the Company does not directly hold any European sovereign debt, many of the Company's customers and counterparties hold positions in these instruments. If the crisis were to continue, the Company would be subject to enhanced risk of counterparty failure, as well as related problems arising from a lack of liquidity in the Company's markets. The continuation of the crisis may affect other aspects of the Company’s businesses for a variety of reasons. A general decrease in worldwide economic activity could reduce demand for Company’s equity market making and foreign exchange business, as well as volumes in our Commodity & Risk Management Services and Clearing and Execution Services segments. Substantial changes in commodities prices may affect the levels of business in the precious and base metals product lines.On October 31, 2011 MF Global Holdings Ltd. ("MF Global"), the parent company of the jointly registered futures commission merchant and broker-dealer, MF Global Inc., filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. At that time, MF Global Inc. notified the CFTC of potential deficiencies in customer segregated futures accounts held at MF Global Inc. We are unable to predict the effect the bankruptcy of MF Global and the potential deficiency in customer segregated futures accounts will have on both the exchange traded and OTC derivative markets in which we operate. It is possible that these developments will result in increased governmental regulation and a decrease in customer confidence in safeguards in place over segregated exchange traded deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The ultimate effect of the crisis on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and capital resources is unknown.We may have difficulty managing our growth. Since October 1, 2007, we have experienced significant growth in our business. Our operating revenues grew from $114.9 million in the 2008 fiscal year to $457.7 million in 2012. The acquisition of additional businesses since September 30, 2011 is expected to increase operating revenues in 2013.This growth has required and will continue to require us to increase our investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls, and facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with our expected growth would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. In addition, as is common in the financial industry, we are and will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our communications and information systems.The scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has increased. In response, we have implemented and continue to revise formal compliance procedures.It is possible that we will not be able to manage our growth successfully. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. We have substantial credit risk in both our securities and commodities businesses. As a market-maker of OTC and listed securities, the majority of our securities transactions are conducted as principal with broker-dealer counterparties located in the U.S. We clear our securities transactions through an unaffiliated clearing broker. Substantially all of our equity and debt securities are held by this clearing broker. Our clearing broker has the right to charge us for losses that result from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual obligations.As a clearing broker in futures and option transactions, we act on behalf of our customers for all trades consummated on exchanges. We must pay initial and variation margin to the exchanges before we receive the required payments from our customers. Accordingly, we are responsible for our customers’ obligations with respect to these transactions, including margin payments, which exposes us to significant credit risk. Customer positions which represent a significant percentage of open positions in a given market or concentrations in illiquid markets may expose us to the risk that we are not able to liquidate a customer’s position in a manner which does not result in a deficit in that customers account. A substantial part of our working capital is at risk if customers default on their obligations to us and their account balances and security deposits are insufficient 15Table of Contentsto meet all of their obligations.With OTC derivative transactions we act as a principal, which exposes us to both the credit risk of our customers and the counterparties with which we offset the customer’s position. As with exchange traded transactions, our OTC transactions require that we meet initial and variation margin payments on behalf of our customers before we receive the required payment from our customers. In addition, with OTC transactions, there is a risk that a counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. We would then be exposed to the risk that a settlement of a transaction which is due a customer will not be collected from the respective counterparty with which the transaction was offset. Customers and counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons.In this regard, during its fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, FCStone Group, Inc. recognized $119.8 million in bad debt expense as a result of defaults by customer counterparties. Although the Company has adopted additional procedures that are designed to reduce the likelihood and magnitude of such credit losses, they are an inherent component of the business conducted by the Company, and the Company will continue to be subject to the risk of such losses.We are responsible for self-clearing our foreign exchange and precious and base metals commodities trading activities and, in addition, take principal risk to counterparties and customers in these activities. Any metals or other physical commodities positions are held by third party custodians. In this regard, during our fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, we recognized $5.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively, in bad debt expense as a result of defaults by customer counterparties to whom we had consigned gold. Although the Company has adopted additional procedures that are designed to reduce the likelihood and magnitude of such credit losses, the possibility of such losses is an inherent component of the business conducted by the Company, and the Company will continue to be subject to the risk of such losses.Although we have procedures for reviewing credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee including rapid changes in securities, commodity and foreign exchange price levels. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers and counterparties.In our securities and commodities trading businesses we rely on the ability of our clearing brokers to adequately discharge their obligations on a timely basis. We also depend on the solvency of our clearing brokers and custodians. Any failure by a clearing broker to adequately discharge its obligations on a timely basis, or insolvency of a clearing broker or custodian, or any event adversely affecting our clearing brokers or custodians, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our net operating revenues may decrease due to changes in market volume, prices or liquidity. Declines in the volume of securities, commodities and foreign exchange transactions and in market liquidity generally may result in lower revenues from market-making and trading activities. Changes in price levels of securities and commodities and foreign exchange rates also may result in reduced trading activity and reduce our revenues from market-making transactions. Changed price levels also can result in losses from changes in the fair value of securities and commodities held in inventory. Sudden sharp changes in fair values of securities and commodities can result in:•illiquid markets;•fair value losses arising from positions held by the Company;•the failure of buyers and sellers of securities and commodities to fulfill their settlement obligations,•redemptions from funds managed in our asset management business segment and consequent reductions in management fees;•reductions in accrued performance fees in our asset management business segment; and•increases in claims and litigation.Any change in market volume, price or liquidity or any other of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our net operating revenues may decrease due to changes in customer trading volumes which are dependent in large part on commodity prices and commodity price volatility. Customer trading volumes are largely driven by the degree of volatility—the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations—in prices of commodities. Higher volatility increases the need to hedge contractual price risk and creates opportunities for arbitrage trading. Energy and agricultural commodities markets have periodically experienced significant price volatility. In addition to price volatility, increases in commodity prices lead to increased trading volume. As prices of commodities have risen, especially energy prices, new participants have entered the markets to address their growing risk-management needs or to take advantage of greater trading opportunities. Sustained periods of stability in the prices of commodities or generally lower prices could result in lower trading volumes and, potentially, lower revenues. Lower 16Table of Contentsvolatility and lower volumes could lead to lower customer balances held on deposit, which in turn may reduce the amount of interest revenue based on these deposits.Factors that are particularly likely to affect price volatility and price levels of commodities include:•supply and demand of commodities;•weather conditions affecting certain commodities;•national and international economic and political conditions;•perceived stability of commodities and financial markets;•the level and volatility of interest rates and inflation; and•financial strength of market participants.Any one or more of these factors may reduce price volatility or price levels in the markets for commodities trading, which in turn could reduce trading activity in those markets. Moreover, any reduction in trading activity could reduce liquidity which in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate any decline in the level of trading activity in these markets.Our net operating revenues may be impacted by diminished market activity due to adverse economic, political and market conditions. The amount of our revenues depends in part on the level of activity in the securities, foreign exchange and commodities markets in which we conduct business. The level of activity in these markets is directly affected by numerous national and international factors that are beyond our control, including:•economic, political and market conditions;•the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital;•the level and volatility of interest rates;•legislative and regulatory changes; and•currency values and inflation.Any one or more of these factors may reduce the level of activity in these markets, which could result in lower revenues from our market-making and trading activities. Any reduction in revenues or any loss resulting from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Several of our product lines depend significantly on a limited group of customers. Based on management’s assessment of our business, we believe that a small number of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenues in several of the product lines of our businesses. These product lines include our equities market-making, metals trading and foreign exchange trading product lines. We are unable to measure the level of this concentration because our dealing activities do not permit us to quantify revenues generated by each customer. We expect a significant portion of the future demand for each of our market-making and trading services to remain concentrated within a limited number of customers. None of these customers is obligated contractually to use our market-making or trading services. Accordingly, these customers may direct their trading activities to other market-makers or traders at any time. The loss of or a significant reduction in demand for our services from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We are dependent on our management team. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our management team who possess extensive knowledge and management skills with respect to securities, commodities and foreign exchange businesses operated by the Company. The unexpected loss of services of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively or execute our business strategy. Although these officers have employment contracts with us, they are generally not required to remain with us for a specified period of time.We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified management, sales, trading, compliance and technical personnel is significant. It is possible that we will be unable to retain our key personnel and to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.From time to time, other companies in the financial sector have experienced losses of sales and trading professionals. The level of competition to attract these professionals is intense. It is possible that we will lose professionals due to increased competition or other factors in the future. The loss of a sales and trading professional, particularly a senior professional with broad industry expertise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Computer systems failures, capacity constraints and breaches of security could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated internally or by third parties. We receive and process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, such as through public and private communications networks. These computer and communications systems and networks are subject to performance degradation or failure from any number of reasons, including loss of power, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software 17Table of Contentsmalfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, customer error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and similar events. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following:•unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients;•slower response times;•delays in our clients’ trade execution;•failed settlement of trades;•decreased client satisfaction with our services;•incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades;•financial losses;•litigation or other client claims; and•regulatory sanctions.The occurrence of degradation or failure of the communications and computer systems on which we rely may lead to financial losses, litigation or arbitration claims filed by or on behalf of our customers and regulatory investigations and sanctions, including by the CFTC, which require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. Any such degradation or failure could also have a negative effect on our reputation, which in turn could cause us to lose existing customers to our competitors or make it more difficult for us to attract new customers in the future. Further, any financial loss that we suffer as a result of such degradations or failures could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in transactions impacted by the degradation or failure, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate any losses we suffer.We are subject to extensive government regulation. The securities and commodities futures industries are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state and foreign laws. In addition, the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, the NFA, the CME Group and other self-regulatory organizations, commonly referred to as SROs, state securities commissions, and foreign securities regulators require compliance with their respective rules and regulations. These regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the financial markets and protecting the interests of participants in those markets.As participants in various financial markets, we may be subject to regulation concerning certain aspects of our business, including:•trade practices;•the way we communicate with, and disclose risks to clients;•financial and reporting requirements and practices;•client identification and anti-money laundering requirements;•capital structure;•record retention; and•the conduct of our directors, officers and employees.Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in adverse consequences. We and certain of our officers and employees have, in the past, been subject to claims arising from acts in contravention of these laws, rules and regulations. These claims have resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. It is possible that we and our officers and other employees will, in the future, be subject to similar claims. An adverse ruling against us or our officers and other employees could result in our or our officers and other employees being required to pay a substantial fine or settlement and could result in a suspension or revocation of required registrations or memberships. Such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change, particularly in light of the October 31, 2011 bankruptcy filing of MF Global and actions taken by the CFTC on July 10, 2012 to freeze assets of Peregrine Financial Group, a futures commission merchant. Both matters resulted from potential deficiencies in customer segregated futures accounts. New or revised legislation or regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and any potential increased regulation over customer segregated deposits, imposed by the SEC, the CFTC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, SROs or FINRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities, SROs and FINRA could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with current or future legislation or regulations that apply to our operations could subject us to fines, penalties, or material restrictions on our business in the future.Additional regulation, changes in existing laws and rules, or changes in interpretations or enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect securities firms. We cannot predict what effect any such changes might have. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially affected by both regulations that are directly applicable to us and regulations of general application. Our level of trading and market-making activities can be affected not only by such legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations.18Table of ContentsDue to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we will incur significant additional operational and compliance costs, our revenues may be lower than in the past and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a comprehensive new regulatory regime governing the OTC and listed derivatives markets and their participants by requiring, among other things: centralized clearing of standardized derivatives (with certain stated exceptions); the trading of clearable derivatives on swap execution facilities or exchanges; and registration and comprehensive regulation of new categories of market participants as “swap dealers” and swap “introducing brokers.” The Dodd-Frank Act grants regulatory authorities, such as the CFTC and the SEC, broad rule-making authority to implement various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including comprehensive regulation of the OTC derivatives market. These regulators have exercised, and will continue to exercise, their expanded rule-making powers in ways that will affect how we conduct our business. At this point in time, it is unclear whether they will exercise their expanded supervisory and enforcement powers in a manner that would adversely affect us.There will be significant costs to prepare for and comply with these on-going regulatory requirements. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, increased costs, including legal fees, personnel expenses and other costs associated with compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. There will also continue to be significant costs related to the development, operation and enhancement of our technology relating to trade execution, trade reporting, surveillance, record keeping and data reporting obligations, compliance and back-up and disaster recovery plans designed to meet the requirements of the regulators.Changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses may adversely impact our results of operations. Following the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules the markets for cleared and non-cleared swaps may be less robust, there may be less volume and liquidity in these markets and there may be less demand for our services. Certain banks and other institutions will be limited in their conduct of proprietary trading and will be further limited or prohibited from trading in certain derivatives. The new rules, including the restrictions on the trading activities for certain banks and large institutions, could materially impact transaction volumes and liquidity in these markets and our revenues would be adversely impacted as a result.Changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses may also adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition. Registration will impose substantial new requirements upon these entities including, among other things, capital and margin requirements, business conduct standards and record keeping and data reporting obligations. Increased regulatory oversight could also impose administrative burdens on us related to, among other things, responding to regulatory examinations or investigations. We currently expect to register our subsidiary, INTL Hanley LLC, as a swap dealer on December 31, 2012. The legislation and implementing regulations may not only affect us, but also certain of our customers and counterparties.Although the original date set for completion of final rules was mid-July 2011, the CFTC has announced that it will phase in its new rules through at least March 31, 2013. Because many of the rules that the CFTC and the SEC are required to promulgate are not yet final, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty how our business will be affected. The Company will continue to monitor all applicable developments in the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with current or future legislation or regulations that apply to our operations could subject us to fines, penalties, or material restrictions on our business in the future. The increased costs associated with compliance, and the changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses, may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition.We are subject to net capital requirements. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies require our broker-dealer subsidiaries, INTL FCStone Securities Inc. and FCC Investments, Inc. to maintain specific levels of net capital. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject these subsidiaries to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies.The CFTC and various other self-regulatory organizations require our futures commission merchant subsidiary, FCStone, LLC, to maintain specific levels of net capital. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject this subsidiary to limitations on its activities, including suspension or revocation of its registration by the CFTC and suspension or expulsion by the NFA and various exchanges of which it is a member.Ultimately, any failure to meet capital requirements by our securities broker-dealer subsidiaries or our FCM subsidiary could result in liquidation of the subsidiary. Failure to comply with the net capital rules could have material and adverse consequences such as limiting their operations, or restricting the Company from withdrawing capital from these subsidiaries.In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit our operations that require the intensive use of capital. They could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from these subsidiaries. Any limitation on our ability to withdraw capital could limit our ability to pay cash dividends, repay debt and repurchase shares of our outstanding stock. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We are subject to margin funding requirements on short notice. Our business involves establishment and carrying of 19Table of Contentssubstantial open positions for customers on futures exchanges and in the OTC derivatives markets. We are required to post and maintain margin or credit support for these positions. Although we collect margin or other deposits from our customers for these positions, significant adverse price movements can occur which will require us to post margin or other deposits on short notice, whether or not we are able to collect additional margin or credit support from our customers. We maintain borrowing facilities for the purpose of funding margin and credit support and have systems to endeavor to collect margin and other deposits from customers on a same-day basis, there can be no assurance that these facilities and systems will be adequate to eliminate the risk of margin calls in the event of severe adverse price movements affecting open positions of our customers. Generally, if a customer is unable to meet its margin call, we promptly liquidate the customer’s account. However, there can be no assurance that in each case the liquidation of the account will not result in a loss to us or that liquidation will be feasible, given market conditions, size of the account and tenor of the positions.Low short-term interest rates negatively impact our profitability. The level of prevailing short-term interest rates affects our profitability because a portion of our revenue is derived from interest earned from the investment of funds deposited with us by our customers. As of September 30, 2012, we had $1.7 billion in customer segregated assets, which are generally invested in short-term treasury securities and money market funds. Our financial performance generally benefits from rising interest rates. Higher interest rates increase the amount of interest income earned from these customer deposits. If short-term interest rates remain low or continue to fall, our revenues derived from interest will decline which would negatively impact our profitability.Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in short-term interest rates.We may issue additional equity securities. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into our common stock could result in dilution of the ownership interest in us held by existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, a significant number of additional shares of our common stock and securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock.We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities laws liability. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, including risks related to currently pending litigation involving both the Company and FCStone. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, including liability under federal and state securities and commodities laws, other federal, state and foreign laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA and other regulatory bodies. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us and our subsidiaries could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, we face increased litigation risk as a result of the FCStone acquisition. Any such litigation could lead to more volatility of our stock price.For a further discussion of litigation risks, see Item 3—Legal Proceedings below and Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements.We may be subject to potentially large claims for violations of environmental laws. Our base metals trading business may be subject to potential claims under certain federal, state and foreign environmental laws. This business involves the purchase and sale of base metals such as lead and other potentially hazardous materials. As part of this business, we engage third parties located both in the United States and in other countries to acquire, store, transport and recycle used automotive and industrial batteries on our behalf. In the event that these third parties fail to comply with federal, state or foreign environmental laws in handling or disposing of these batteries and other hazardous substances used in or arising from the recycling of these batteries, we may be exposed to claims for the cost of remediating sites impacted by such improper handling and disposal, as well as other related costs. We seek to mitigate this risk by dealing with third parties who we believe are in compliance with applicable laws and who have established reputations in the industry.We are subject to intense competition. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from market-making and trading activities involving securities and commodities. The market for these services, particularly market-making services through electronic communications gateways, is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. We compete primarily with wholesale, national, and regional broker-dealers and FCMs, as well as electronic communications networks. We compete primarily on the basis of our expertise and quality of service.We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from commodities risk management services. The commodity risk management industry is very competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors in this industry include both large, diversified financial institutions and commodity-oriented businesses, smaller firms that focus on specific products or regional markets and independent FCMs.A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of them may:20Table of Contents•offer alternative forms of financial intermediation as a result of superior technology and greater availability of information;•offer a wider range of services and products than we offer;•be larger and better capitalized;•have greater name recognition; and•have more extensive customer bases.These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities and customer requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to customers. Recent advances in computing and communications technology are substantially changing the means by which market-making services are delivered, including more direct access on-line to a wide variety of services and information. This has created demand for more sophisticated levels of customer service. Providing these services may entail considerable cost without an offsetting increase in revenues. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. New competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and they may acquire significant market share.We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our customer base. Customers in our market are sensitive to, among other things, the costs of using our services, the quality of the services we offer, the speed and reliability of order execution and the breadth of our service offerings and the products and markets to which we offer access. We may not be able to continue to offer the pricing, service, speed and reliability of order execution or the service, product and market breadth that customers desire. In addition, once our risk management consulting customers have become better educated with regard to sources of risk and the tools available to facilitate the management of this risk and we have provided them with recommended hedging strategies, they may no longer continue paying monthly fees for these services. In addition, the bankruptcy filing of MF Global and its disclosure of a potential deficiency in customer segregated futures accounts may negatively affect the perception of our industry and our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Furthermore, our existing customers, including IRMP customers, are not generally obligated to use our services and can switch providers of clearing and execution services or decrease their trading activity conducted through us at any time. As a result, we may fail to retain existing customers or be unable to attract new customers. Our failure to maintain or attract customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We rely on relationships with introducing brokers for obtaining some of our customers. The failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. We have relationships with introducing brokers who assist us in establishing new customer relationships and provide marketing and customer service functions for some of our customers. These introducing brokers receive compensation for introducing customers to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be canceled on relatively short notice. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide new customer relationships or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain these relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain customer relationships would result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business.Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and make a takeover of us more difficult. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Certain provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board to determine the terms of our unissued series of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares of any series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. As a result, the board can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, because the rights given to the holders of a series of preferred stock may prohibit a merger, reorganization, sale, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction.Our stock price is subject to volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and can be expected to be subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:•actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;•announcements of new products by us or our competitors;•technological innovations by us or our competitors;•changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts;•the operating and stock price performance of other companies;•general market conditions or conditions specific in specific markets;21Table of Contents•conditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy generally;•announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; and•risk factors and uncertainties set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K.Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline as a result. In addition, any negative change in the public’s perception of the securities industry could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results.Future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.Our international operations involve special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. We engage in a significant amount of business with customers in the international markets. Certain additional risks are inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in a regulated industry. These risks include:•the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change;•tariffs and other trade barriers;•difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations;•difficulties of debt collection in foreign jurisdictions;•potentially adverse tax consequences; and•reduced protection for intellectual property rights.Our operations are subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less developed regions of the world, including the risk of war and other international conflicts and actions by governmental authorities, insurgent groups, terrorists and others. Specifically, we conduct business in countries whose currencies may be unstable. Future instability in such currencies or the imposition of governmental or regulatory restrictions on such currencies could impede our foreign exchange business and our ability to collect on collateral held in such currencies.Our operations are required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations, including registration requirements. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be difficult and time consuming and may require significant expenditures and personnel requirements, and our failure to be in compliance would subject us to legal and regulatory liabilities. We have customers in numerous countries around the world in which we are not registered. As a result, we may become subject to the regulatory requirements of those countries. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations or limit our ability to grow our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results.If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsWe have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2012 that remain unresolved.