ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company faces a variety of risks that could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. The risks faced by the Company include the following: We do not have a consistent history of profitability and our ability to achieve consistent profitability in the future is subject to uncertainty. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 we recorded a net loss of $4.5 million, compared with a net income of $3.5 million in 2006, and net income of $2.6 million in 2005. Our ability to achieve consistent profitability is subject to uncertainty due to the nature of our businesses and the markets in which we operate. In particular, our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future because of the following factors: • Volatility in the securities and commodities markets in which we operate; • Changes in the volume of our market making and trading activities; 8 Table of Contents • Changes in the value of our financial instruments, currency and commodities positions and our ability to manage related risks; • Our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses; • Changes in execution and clearing fees; • The addition or loss of sales or trading professionals; • Changes in legal requirements; and • General economic and political conditions; Although we are continuing our efforts to diversify the sources of our revenues, it is likely that our revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate substantially in the future and such fluctuations could result in losses. These losses could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The manner in which we account for our commodities inventory may increase the volatility of our reported earnings in the future. Our net income is subject to volatility due to the manner in which we report our commodities inventory. This inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value. The Company generally mitigates the price risk associated with its commodities inventory through the use of derivatives. This price risk mitigation does not generally qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP. In such situations, any unrealized gains in inventory are not recognized under GAAP, but unrealized gains and losses in related derivative positions are recognized under GAAP. As a result, the Company’s reported earnings from this business segment are subject to greater volatility than the earnings from our other business segments. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial conditions. As of September 30, 2007, our total consolidated indebtedness to lenders and noteholders was approximately $110 million, and we expect to increase our indebtedness in the future as we continue to expand our business. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the securities industry; • restricting our ability to pay dividends or make other payments; and 9 Table of Contents • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less indebtedness. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We face risks associated with our market making and trading activities. We conduct our market-making and trading activities predominantly as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities involve the purchase, sale or short sale for customers and for our own account of financial instruments, including equity and debt securities, commodities and foreign exchange. These activities are subject to a number of risks, including risks of price fluctuations and rapid changes in the liquidity of markets. These risks may limit our ability to either resell financial instruments we purchased or to repurchase securities we sold in these transactions. In addition, we may experience difficulty borrowing financial instruments to make delivery to purchasers to whom we sold short, or lenders from whom we have borrowed. From time to time, we have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers in specific countries and markets. This concentration could result in higher trading losses than would occur if our positions and activities were less concentrated. The success of our market-making activities depends on: • the price volatility of specific financial instruments, currencies and commodities; • our ability to attract order flow; • the skill of our personnel; • the availability of capital; and • general market conditions. To attract market-trading and trading business, we must be competitive in: • providing enhanced liquidity to our customers; • the efficiency of our order execution; • the sophistication of our trading technology; and • the quality of our customer service. In our role as a market maker and trader, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell financial instruments, currencies and commodities. However, competitive forces often require us to: • match the quotes other market makers display; and 10 Table of Contents • hold varying amounts of financial instruments, currencies and commodities in inventory. By having to maintain inventory positions, we are subject to a high degree of risk. We cannot ensure that we will be able to manage our inventory risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulty managing our growth. Since October 1, 2004, we have experienced significant growth in our business. Our operating revenues grew from $26.1 million in the 2005 fiscal year to $35.9 million in 2006. Operating revenues for the 2007 fiscal year were $53.6 million. This growth has required and will continue to require us to increase our investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls, and facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with our expected growth would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. In addition, as is common in the financial industry, we are and will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our communications and information systems. The scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has increased. In response, we have implemented and continue to revise formal compliance procedures. It is possible that we will not be able to manage our growth successfully. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Counterparties may fail to pay us. As a market-maker of OTC and listed securities, the majority of our securities transactions are conducted as principal with broker-dealer counterparties located in the United States. We clear our securities transactions through an unaffiliated clearing broker. Substantially all of our equity and debt securities are held by this clearing broker. Our clearing broker has the right to charge us for losses that result from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual obligations. We are responsible for self-clearing our foreign exchange and commodities activities and, in addition, take principal risk to counterparties in these activities. The settlement of exchange traded options is effected through clearing institutions. Any metals or other physical commodities positions are held by third party custodians. Our policy is to monitor the credit standing of the counterparties with which we conduct business. Nevertheless, one or more of these counterparties may default on their obligations. If any do, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents In our equity, debt and commodities trading businesses we rely on the ability of our clearing brokers to adequately discharge its obligations on a timely basis. We also depend on the solvency of our clearing brokers and custodians. Any failure by a clearing broker to adequately discharge its obligations on a timely basis, or insolvency of a clearing broker or custodian, or any event adversely affecting our clearing brokers or custodians, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues may decrease due to changes in market volume, prices or liquidity. Our revenues may decrease due to a changes in market volume, prices or liquidity. Declines in the volume of securities, foreign exchange and commodities transactions and in market liquidity generally may result in lower revenues from market-making and trading activities. Changes in price levels of securities and commodities also may result in reduced trading activity and reduce our revenues from market-making transactions. Changed price levels also can result in losses from changes in the market value of securities and commodities held in inventory. Sudden sharp changes in market values of securities and commodities can result in: • illiquid markets; • fair value losses arising from positions held by the Company; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities and commodities to fulfill their settlement obligations; and • increases in claims and litigation. Any change in market volume, price or liquidity or any other of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues may be impacted by diminished market activity due to adverse economic, political and market conditions. The amount of our revenues depends in part on the level of activity in the securities, foreign exchange and commodities markets in which we conduct business. The level of activity in these markets is directly affected by numerous national and international factors that are beyond our control, including: • economic, political and market conditions; • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; and • currency values and inflation. Any one or more of these factors may reduce the level of activity in these markets, which could result in lower revenues from our market-making and trading activities. Any reduction in revenues or any loss resulting from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 Table of Contents We depend significantly on a limited group of customers. Based on management’s assessment of our business, we believe that a small number of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenues in each of our businesses. We are unable to measure the level of this concentration because our dealing activities do not permit us to quantify revenues generated by each customer. We expect a significant portion of the future demand for each of our market-making and trading services to remain concentrated within a limited number of customers. None of these customers is obligated contractually to use our market-making or trading services. Accordingly, these customers may direct their trading activities to other market-makers or traders at any time. The loss of or a significant reduction in demand for our services from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified management, sales, trading, compliance and technical personnel is significant. It is possible that we will be unable to retain our key personnel and to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. From time to time, other companies in the financial sector have experienced losses of sales and trading professionals. The level of competition to attract these professionals is intense. It is possible that we will lose professionals due to increased competition or other factors in the future. The loss of a sales and trading professional, particularly a senior professional with broad industry expertise, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend significantly on our computer and communications systems. Our market-making and trading activities depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary trading volumes or other events could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems or any other systems in the trading process could cause customers to suffer delays in trading. These delays could cause substantial losses for customers and could subject us to claims from customers for losses. Our systems may also fail as a result of: • hurricanes, tornados, fires or other natural disasters; • power or telecommunications failures; • acts of God; • computer hacking activities; • terrorism; or • war. 13 Table of Contents Any computer or communications system failure or decrease in computer systems performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to extensive government regulation. The securities industry is subject to extensive regulation under federal, state and foreign laws. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, commonly referred to as SROs, state securities commissions, and foreign securities regulators require strict compliance with their respective rules and regulations. These regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the financial markets and protecting the interests of participants in those markets. As participants in various financial markets, we may be subject to regulation concerning certain aspects of our business, including: • trade practices; • capital structure; • record retention; and • the conduct of our directors, officers and employees. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in adverse consequences. We and certain of our officers and employees, have, in the past, been subject to claims arising from acts in contravention of these laws, rules and regulations. These claims have resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. It is possible that we and our officers and other employees will, in the future, be subject to similar claims. An adverse ruling against us or our officers and other employees could result in our or our officers and other employees being required to pay a substantial fine or settlement and could result in suspension or expulsion. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. New or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, SROs or FINRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities, SROs and FINRA could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additional regulation, changes in existing laws and rules, or changes in interpretations or enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect securities firms. We cannot predict what effect any such changes might have. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially affected by both regulations that are directly applicable to us and regulations of general application. Our level of trading and market-making activities can be affected not only by such legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to net capital requirements. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies require our broker-dealer subsidiary, INTL Trading, to maintain specific levels of net capital. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject this subsidiary to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit our operations that require the intensive use of capital. They could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our brokerage subsidiary. Any limitation on our ability to withdraw capital could limit our ability to pay cash dividends, repay debt and repurchase shares of our outstanding stock. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In this connection, we may be subject to claims by the SEC and FINRA arising from certain net capital deficiencies disclosed in “Item 1. Business – Net Capital Requirements.” INTL Capital in Dubai and INTL Global Currencies (Asia) in Hong Kong are also subject to minimum net capital requirements. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities laws liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. A market maker is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal, state and foreign laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, FINRA and other regulatory bodies. We are also subject to the risks of litigation and claims that may be without merit. As we intend to defend actively any such litigation, significant legal expenses could be incurred. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to potentially large claims for violations of environmental laws. Our base metals trading business may be subject to potential claims under certain federal, state and foreign environmental laws. This business involves the purchase and sale of base metals such as lead and other potentially hazardous materials. As part of this business, we engage third parties located both in the United States and in other countries to acquire, store, transport and recycle used automotive and industrial batteries on our behalf. In the event that these third parties fail to comply with federal, state or foreign environmental laws in handling or disposing of these batteries and other hazardous substances used in or arising from the recycling of these batteries, we may be exposed to claims for the cost of remediating sites impacted by such improper handling and disposal, as well as other related costs. We seek to mitigate this risk by dealing with third parties who we believe are in compliance with applicable laws and who have established reputations in the industry. We are subject to intense competition. We derive most of our revenues from market-making and trading activities. The market for these services, particularly market-making services through electronic communications gateways, is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. We compete primarily with wholesale, national, and regional broker-dealers, as well as electronic communications networks. We compete primarily on the basis of our expertise and quality of service. 15 Table of Contents A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of them may: • offer alternative forms of financial intermediation as a result of superior technology and greater availability of information; • offer a wider range of services and products than we offer; • have greater name recognition; and • have more extensive customer bases. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities and customer requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to customers. Recent advances in computing and communications technology are substantially changing the means by which market-making services are delivered, including more direct access on-line to a wide variety of services and information. This has created demand for more sophisticated levels of customer service. Providing these services may entail considerable cost without an offsetting increase in revenues. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. New competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and they may acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and make a takeover of us more difficult. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Certain provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board to determine the terms of our unissued series of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares of any series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. As a result, the board can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, because the rights given to the holders of a series of preferred stock may prohibit a merger, reorganization, sale, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction. Our stock price is subject to volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and can be expected to be subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors; 16 Table of Contents • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies; • general market conditions or conditions specific in specific markets; • conditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy generally; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; and • risk factors and uncertainties set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline as a result. In addition, any negative change in the public’s perception of the securities industry could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Two of our officers, Sean O’Connor and Scott Branch, have agreed to restrict the sale of the shares of our common stock owned by them. They beneficially own 1,809,681 outstanding shares, or 21.9% of the total shares outstanding as of September 30, 2007. These restrictions will expire upon the repayment of our senior subordinated convertible notes. The agreement contains several exceptions which permit each officer to sell these shares in limited amounts and/or under limited circumstances. These exceptions include the ability to sell up to 20,000 shares prior to September 30, 2007 and up to 20,000 shares in each calendar quarter thereafter, plus additional shares in any period provided certain pricing or other conditions are satisfied. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 