Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Our results of operations are cyclical and could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the commodity prices for hogs, cattle and grains. We are largely dependent on the cost and supply of hogs, cattle and feed ingredients and the selling price of our products and competing protein products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include: • competing demand for corn for use in the manufacture of alternative fuels, • environmental and conservation regulations, • import and export restrictions, • economic conditions, • weather, including weather impacts on our water supply, • energy prices, including the effect of changes in energy prices on our transportation costs, and • crop and livestock diseases. We cannot assure you that all or part of any increased costs experienced by us from time to time can be passed along to consumers of our products directly or in a timely manner. Additionally, commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. For example, our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter and fiscal 2007 first half financial results were impacted negatively by an over-supply of protein that decreased selling prices of our fresh and packaged meats. Also, recent expansion of pork processing capacity by industry participants has negatively affected fresh pork margins. We attempt to manage certain of these risks through the use of our risk management and hedging programs. However, these programs may also limit our ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. For example, in the first half of fiscal 2005, we were unable to benefit fully from strong hog prices due to our hedging activities. Additionally, the majority of our commodity derivative contracts are marked-to-market such that the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings on a quarterly basis. This accounting treatment may cause volatility in our quarterly earnings. 15 Table of Contents Any perceived or real health risks related to the food industry or increased regulation could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by the following: • food spoilage or food contamination, • evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns, • consumer product liability claims, • product tampering, • the possible unavailability and expense of product liability insurance, and • the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Adverse publicity concerning any perceived or real health risk associated with our products could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, particularly as we expand our branded products business. We could also be adversely affected by perceived or real health risks associated with similar products produced by others to the extent such risks cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of such products generally. Our products are susceptible to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella, Campylobacter and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. These pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to extensive laws and regulations in the food safety area, including constant government inspections and governmental food processing controls. We also have systems in place designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the manufacturing process (including the production of raw materials in the HP segment). However, we cannot assure you that such systems, even when working effectively, or compliance with governmental regulations will eliminate the risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. In addition, future material changes in food safety regulations could result in increased operating costs or could be required to be implemented on schedules that cannot be met without interruptions in our operations. Environmental regulation and related litigation and commitments could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including among others: • the discharge of materials into the environment, and • the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes). Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to us may also be enforced by citizen groups. See Note 12 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of regulatory compliance as it relates to environmental risk. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, pursuant to a voluntary agreement with the State of North Carolina, we committed to implement environmentally superior and economically feasible technologies for the management of swine waste at our farms 16 Table of Contents in North Carolina provided a determination is made by an expert from North Carolina State University that such technologies are both environmentally superior and economically feasible to construct and operate at such farms. We also recently acquired PSF, which entered into environmental consent decrees in the State of Missouri requiring PSF to research, develop and implement new technologies to control wastewater, air and odor emissions from its Missouri farms. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental Stewardship” and “Item 1. Business—Regulation” for further information regarding these obligations. We cannot assure you that the costs of carrying out these obligations will not exceed previous estimates or that requirements applicable to us will not be altered in ways that will require us to incur significant additional costs. In addition, new environmental issues could arise that would cause currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures. Health risk to livestock could adversely affect production, the supply of raw materials and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our livestock is healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary manner. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Livestock health problems could adversely impact production, supply of raw material to the Pork, Beef and International segments and consumer confidence. From time to time, we have experienced outbreaks of certain livestock diseases, such as the outbreak of circovirus at our U.S. facilities that began in late fiscal 2006. We may experience additional outbreaks of disease in the future. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of livestock to finished size and require in some cases the destruction of infected livestock, all of which could adversely affect our production or ability to sell or export our products. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, particularly as we expand our branded pork products. In addition to risks associated with maintaining the health of our livestock, any outbreak of disease elsewhere in the U.S. or even in other countries could reduce consumer confidence in the meat products affected by the particular disease, generate adverse publicity and result in the imposition of import or export restrictions. For example, in 2003, a BSE outbreak in Canada resulted in a U.S. import restriction on live cattle from Canada. The resulting drop in the live cattle supply in the U.S. led to increased prices for live cattle and placed pressure on margins in our Beef segment. The subsequent discovery of isolated cases of BSE in the U.S. led to bans imposed by key Asian markets on beef imports from the U.S. Restrictions imposed by these markets are gradually lifting but continue to limit the amount of beef products that can be imported from the U.S. Similarly, the presence of classical swine fever in Romania has led certain countries, including all of those in the European Union, to impose bans of indefinite duration on imports of pork products from Romania. Outbreaks of avian influenza in various parts of world in 2006 reduced the global demand for poultry and thus created a surplus of poultry both domestically and internationally. This poultry surplus placed downward pressure on poultry prices which in turn reduced pork and beef prices both in the U.S. and internationally. Governmental authorities may take further action restricting our ability to own livestock or to engage in farming or restricting such operations generally, which could adversely affect our business. A number of States, including Iowa and Missouri, have adopted legislation that prohibits or restricts the ability of meat packers, or in some cases corporations generally, from owning livestock or engaging in farming. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the State of Iowa whereby the state agreed not to enforce its restrictive legislation on us for a period of ten years. As a part of our settlement, we committed to pay $200,000 per year for 10 years to support various programs benefiting the swine industry in Iowa. We also agreed to purchase a specified minimum number of hogs to be processed by us in Iowa and South Dakota on the open market for two years. In connection with our acquisition of PSF in May 2007, we acquired six farms in Missouri outside of the counties exempted from Missouri’s anti-corporate farming law. Under an agreement we reached with the Attorney General of the State of Missouri, we have promised to divest these farms within 24 months. We cannot assure you that we will be able to divest these farms on terms that are fair to us. 17 Table of Contents The State of North Carolina has enacted a moratorium on the construction of farms with more than 250 hogs or the expansion of existing large farms. The moratorium limits us from expanding our North Carolina production operations. The moratorium is scheduled to expire in September 2007. However, legislation currently pending in the North Carolina General Assembly would establish, in effect, a permanent moratorium on the construction of new farms using the lagoon and sprayfield system. Other states have similar legislation restricting the ability of corporations or others from owning livestock farms or engaging in farming. In addition, Congress is currently considering federal legislation that would ban meat packers from owning livestock. We cannot assure you that such or similar legislation affecting our operations will not be adopted at the federal or state levels in the future. Such legislation, if adopted and applicable to our current operations and not successfully challenged or settled, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial statements. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. At April 29, 2007, we had outstanding approximately $3,076.3 million of indebtedness and guarantees of up to $95.5 million for the financial obligations of certain unconsolidated joint ventures and hog farmers. In addition, our acquisition of PSF on May 7, 2007 included our assumption of PSF’s approximately $117.0 million of net debt. We have aggregate revolving credit facilities totaling $1,659.6 million. As of April 29, 2007, we had unused capacity under these revolving credit facilities of $449.7 million. These revolving facilities are generally at prevailing market rates. We pay commitment fees on the unused portion of the revolving facilities. We expect our indebtedness may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions. Our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: • it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, • a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs, • it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, and • a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise. In addition, our revolving credit agreements and senior secured note agreements contain financial covenants tied to leverage, interest coverage and working capital. Our debt agreements also restrict the payment of dividends to shareholders and under certain circumstances may limit additional borrowings, investments, the acquisition or disposition of assets, mergers and transactions with affiliates. As currently structured, a breach of a covenant or restriction in any of these agreements could result in a default that would in turn cause a default under other agreements, allowing the affected lenders to accelerate the repayment of principal and accrued interest on their outstanding debt, if they choose, and, in the case of the revolving credit agreements, terminate their commitments to lend additional funds. The future ability of us and our operating subsidiaries to comply with financial covenants, make scheduled payments of principal and interest, or refinance existing borrowings depends on future business performance that is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, including the other risks described herein. Our acquisition strategy may prove to be disruptive and divert management resources and may result in financial or other setbacks. We have made numerous acquisitions in recent years and regularly review opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. We have also pursued strategic growth through investment in joint ventures. These 18 Table of Contents acquisitions and investments may involve large transactions and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • diversion of management attention from existing businesses, • difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, • lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business, • increased levels of debt and associated reduction in ratings of our debt securities, • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, • assumption of unknown or contingent liabilities, and • potential disputes with the sellers. In addition, acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique difficulties and increase our exposure to those risks associated with international operations. We could experience financial or other setbacks if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future have problems of which we are not aware or liabilities that exceed expectations. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri litigation.” Although we intend to continue PSF’s vigorous defense of these claims, we cannot assure you that we will be successful, that additional nuisance claims will not arise in the future or that the PSF reserves for litigation will not have to be increased. For example, as also discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri litigation,” we and certain of our contract growers are defendants in a lawsuit recently filed in Missouri based on the laws of nuisance and involving 13 plaintiffs. We are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 14% percent of our net sales in fiscal 2007. International sales are subject to risks related to economic or political uncertainties including among others: • general economic conditions, • imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries, • the closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of beef or pork due to animal disease or other perceived health safety issues in the U.S., and • enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws. Furthermore, we conduct foreign operations in Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom, with these foreign operations being subject to the risks described above as well as additional risks and uncertainties including among others: • fluctuations in currency values, which have affected, among other things, the costs of our investments in foreign operations, • translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, and • foreign currency exchange controls. In addition, we are engaged in joint ventures in France, China and Mexico and have significant investments in Spain. These investments are also subject to the risks described above. As of April 29, 2007, approximately 28% of our long-lived assets were associated with our foreign operations. 19 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims related to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We depend on availability of, and satisfactory relations with, our employees. As of April 29, 2007, we had approximately 53,100 employees, 22,000 of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our operations depend on the availability, retention and relative costs of labor and maintaining satisfactory relations with employees and the labor unions. Labor relations issues arise from time to time, including issues in connection with union efforts to represent employees at our plants. For example, the United Food and Commercial Workers Union is currently engaged in a campaign to represent employees at our Tar Heel, North Carolina plant, where we have experienced work stoppages, walk-outs and attempts to organize boycotts. Some of these activities occurred in connection with immigration enforcement activities relating to suspected undocumented workers at that plant. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or other consequences similar or in addition to the type of activities discussed above. None of these activities have had any material impact on our financial statements to date, however, we cannot assure you that these activities will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, the discovery by us or governmental authorities of undocumented workers could result in our having to replace those workers, which could be disruptive to our operations. We have significant credit exposure to certain customers. Our ten largest customers represented approximately 26% of net sales for fiscal year 2007. We do not have long-term sales agreements (other than to certain third-party hog customers) or other contractual assurances as to future sales to these major customers. In addition, continued consolidation within the retail industry, including among supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base. To the extent these trends continue to occur, our net sales and profitability may be increasingly sensitive to a deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments in our relationship with, one or more customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 