ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Our results of operations are cyclical and could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the commodity prices for livestock and grains. We are largely dependent on the cost and supply of livestock and feed ingredients and the selling price of our products and competing protein products, all of which are determined by constantly changing and volatile market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include: • competing demand for corn for use in the manufacture of alternative fuels, • environmental and conservation regulations, 16 Table of Contents • import and export restrictions, • economic conditions, • weather, including weather impacts on our water supply and the impact on the availability and pricing of grains, • energy prices, including the effect of changes in energy prices on our transportation costs and the cost of feed, and • crop and livestock diseases. We cannot assure you that all or part of any increased costs experienced by us from time to time can be passed along to consumers of our products directly, in a timely manner or at all. Livestock prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting the supply of livestock on the market. Further, the raising costs of livestock are largely dependent on the fluctuations of commodity prices for corn and other feed ingredients. For example, our fiscal 2008 results of operations were negatively impacted by higher feed and feed ingredient costs which increased cash-basis hog raising costs by 18% versus the prior year period, a decrease in domestic live hog market prices from $48 per hundredweight in fiscal 2007 to $44 per hundredweight in fiscal 2008 due to the increased level of supply in the market and increased transportation and energy costs due in part to rising fuel prices. Additionally, commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. For example, our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter and fiscal 2007 first half financial results were impacted negatively by an over-supply of protein that decreased selling prices of our fresh and packaged meats. We attempt to manage certain of these risks through the use of our risk management and hedging programs. However, these programs may also limit our ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. Additionally, a portion of our commodity derivative contracts are marked-to-market such that the related unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings on a quarterly basis. Therefore, losses on those contracts would adversely affect our earnings. This accounting treatment may cause significant volatility in our quarterly earnings. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Derivative Financial Instruments” for further information. Any perceived or real health risks related to the food industry or increased regulation could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by the following: • food spoilage or food contamination, • evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns, • consumer product liability claims, • product tampering, • the possible unavailability and expense of product liability insurance, and • the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Adverse publicity concerning any perceived or real health risk associated with our products could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, particularly as we expand our branded products business. We could also be adversely affected by perceived or real health risks associated with similar products produced by others to the extent such risks cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of such products generally. 17 Table of Contents Our products are susceptible to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella, Campylobacter and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. These pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to extensive laws and regulations in the food safety area, including constant government inspections and governmental food processing controls. We also have systems in place designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of our vertically integrated process. However, we cannot assure you that such systems, even when working effectively, or compliance with governmental regulations will eliminate the risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. In addition, future material changes in food safety regulations could result in increased operating costs or could be required to be implemented on schedules that cannot be met without interruptions in our operations. Environmental regulation and related litigation and commitments could have a material adverse effect on us. Our past and present business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including among others: • the discharge of materials into the environment, • the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes), and • the emission of greenhouse gases. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to us may also be enforced by citizen groups. See Note 11 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of regulatory compliance as it relates to environmental risk. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, pursuant to a voluntary agreement with the State of North Carolina, we committed to implement environmentally superior and economically feasible technologies for the management of swine waste at our farms in North Carolina provided a determination is made by an expert from North Carolina State University that such technologies are both environmentally superior and economically feasible to construct and operate at such farms. We also acquired PSF in fiscal 2008, which entered into environmental consent decrees in the State of Missouri requiring PSF to research, develop and implement new technologies to control wastewater, air and odor emissions from its Missouri farms. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental Stewardship” and “Item 1. Business—Regulation” for further information regarding these obligations. We cannot assure you that the costs of carrying out these obligations will not exceed previous estimates or that requirements applicable to us will not be altered in ways that will require us to incur significant additional costs. In addition, new environmental issues could arise that would cause currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures. Health risk to livestock could adversely affect production, the supply of raw materials and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our livestock is healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary manner. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Livestock health problems could adversely impact production, the supply of raw material and consumer confidence in all of our operating segments. From time to time, we have experienced outbreaks of certain livestock diseases, such as the outbreaks of classical swine fever at three of our hog farms in Romania in August 2007 and the outbreak of circovirus at our U.S. facilities that began in late fiscal 2006. We may experience additional occurrences of disease in the future. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of livestock to finished size and require in some cases the destruction of infected 18 Table of Contents livestock, all of which could adversely affect our production or ability to sell or export our products. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, particularly as we expand our branded pork products. In addition to risks associated with maintaining the health of our livestock, any outbreak of disease elsewhere in the U.S. or even in other countries could reduce consumer confidence in the meat products affected by the particular disease, generate adverse publicity and result in the imposition of import or export restrictions. For example, the discovery of isolated cases of BSE in the U.S. beginning in December 2003 led to bans imposed by key Asian markets on beef imports from the U.S. Restrictions imposed by these markets are gradually lifting but continue to limit the amount of beef products that can be exported to them from the U.S. Similarly, the presence of classical swine fever in Romania has resulted in a ban of indefinite duration on sales of Romanian pork to other EU member states. In the past, outbreaks of avian influenza in various parts of the world have reduced the global demand for poultry and thus created a surplus of poultry both domestically and internationally. This poultry surplus placed downward pressure on poultry prices which in turn reduced pork and beef prices both in the U.S. and internationally. Governmental authorities may take further action restricting our ability to own livestock or to engage in farming or restricting such operations generally, which could adversely affect our business. A number of states, including Iowa and Missouri, have adopted legislation that prohibits or restricts the ability of meat packers, or in some cases corporations generally, from owning livestock or engaging in farming. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the State of Iowa whereby the state agreed not to enforce its restrictive legislation on us for a period of ten years. As a part of our settlement, we committed to pay $200,000 per year for 10 years to support various programs benefiting the swine industry in Iowa. We also agreed to purchase a specified minimum number of hogs to be processed by us in Iowa and South Dakota on the open market for two years. In connection with our acquisition of PSF in fiscal 2008, we acquired six farms in Missouri outside of the counties exempted from Missouri’s anti-corporate farming law. Under an agreement we reached with the Attorney General of the State of Missouri, we have promised to divest these farms within 24 months of the PSF acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to divest these farms on terms that are fair to us. Other states have similar legislation restricting the ability of corporations or others from owning livestock farms or engaging in farming. In addition, Congress has recently considered federal legislation that would ban meat packers from owning livestock. We cannot assure you that such or similar legislation affecting our operations will not be adopted at the federal or state levels in the future. Such legislation, if adopted and applicable to our current operations and not successfully challenged or settled, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial statements. In fiscal 2008, the State of North Carolina enacted a permanent moratorium on the construction of new hog farms using the lagoon and sprayfield system. The moratorium limits us from expanding our North Carolina production operations. This permanent moratorium replaced a 10-year moratorium on the construction of hog farms with more than 250 hogs or the expansion of existing large farms. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. As of April 27, 2008, we had: • approximately $3,878.1 million of indebtedness, • guarantees of up to $95.5 million for the financial obligations of certain unconsolidated joint ventures and hog farmers, and 19 Table of Contents • aggregate unused capacity under our revolving credit facilities totaling $313.8 million, taking into account outstanding borrowings of $1,666.4 million and outstanding letters of credit of $141.8 million and including $100.0 million of our $250.0 million of uncommitted lines of credit and interim facility commitments that have not been drawn. We expect our indebtedness may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. In addition, due to the volatile nature of the commodities markets, we may have to borrow significant amounts to cover any margin calls under our risk management and hedging programs. Our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: • it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, • a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs. For example, Moody’s Investors Service recently placed its ratings of our debt on review for possible downgrade, • it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, and • a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise. In addition, our U.S. Credit Facility, Euro Credit Facility and senior secured note agreements contain financial covenants tied to leverage, interest coverage and working capital. Our debt agreements also restrict the payment of dividends to shareholders and under certain circumstances may limit additional borrowings, investments, the acquisition or disposition of assets, mergers and transactions with affiliates. As currently structured, a breach of a covenant or restriction in any of these agreements could result in a default that would in turn cause a default under other agreements, allowing the affected lenders to accelerate the repayment of principal and accrued interest on their outstanding debt, if they choose, and, in the case of the revolving credit agreements, terminate their commitments to lend additional funds. The future ability of us and our operating subsidiaries to comply with financial covenants, make scheduled payments of principal and interest, or refinance existing borrowings depends on future business performance that is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, including the other risks described herein. Further, we expect that the net proceeds from the sale of Smithfield Beef, our beef processing and cattle feeding operation, as well as the sale of Smithfield Beef’s live cattle inventories and our interest in Five Rivers’ cattle inventory, net of associated debt, will be used for debt reduction. However, we are currently responding to a second request from the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice relating to these transactions and we cannot be assured that these transactions will obtain regulatory clearance or that all the other conditions to closing will be satisfied. Although we currently expect the transactions to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, if they do not, or the sales are delayed, our short and long-term liquidity positions will be negatively impacted and we may need to seek additional sources of liquidity. We cannot assure you that such additional sources of liquidity will be available to us on terms we believe are acceptable. Our acquisition strategy may prove to be disruptive and divert management resources and may result in financial or other setbacks. We have made numerous acquisitions in recent years and regularly review opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. We have also pursued strategic growth through investment in joint ventures. These acquisitions and investments may involve large transactions or realignment of existing investments such as when we contributed our French operations into Groupe Smithfield. These transactions present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • diversion of management attention from other business concerns, • difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, 20 Table of Contents • lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business, • increased levels of debt and associated reduction in ratings of our debt securities, • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, • assumption of unknown or contingent liabilities, • potential disputes with the sellers, and • for our investments, potential lack of common business goals and strategies with, and cooperation of, our joint venture partners. In addition, acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique difficulties and increase our exposure to those risks associated with international operations. We could experience financial or other setbacks if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future have problems of which we are not aware or liabilities that exceed expectations. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri litigation.” Although we are continuing PSF’s vigorous defense of these claims, we cannot assure you that we will be successful, that additional nuisance claims will not arise in the future or that the reserves for this litigation will not have to be substantially increased. For example, as also discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Missouri litigation,” we and certain of our contract growers are defendants in a lawsuit filed in Missouri in fiscal 2008 based on the laws of nuisance and involving 13 plaintiffs. We are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 18% percent of our net sales in fiscal 2008. We conduct foreign operations in Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom. In addition, we are engaged in joint ventures mainly in Western Europe and Mexico and have significant investments in Spain. As of April 27, 2008, approximately 32% of our long-lived assets were associated with our foreign operations. As a result, our international sales, operations and investments are subject to various risks related to economic or political uncertainties including among others: • general economic conditions, • imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries, • the closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of our products due to animal disease or other perceived health safety issues, and • enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws. Furthermore, our foreign operations are subject to the risks described above as well as additional risks and uncertainties including among others: • fluctuations in currency values, which have affected, among other things, the costs of our investments in foreign operations, • translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, and • foreign currency exchange controls. Occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other markets we are developing could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims related to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Moreover, the process of litigating cases, even if we are successful, may be costly, and may approximate the cost of damages sought. Litigation trends and expenses and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends, expenses and outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We depend on availability of, and satisfactory relations with, our employees. As of April 27, 2008, we had approximately 58,100 employees, 28,800 of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our operations depend on the availability, retention and relative costs of labor and maintaining satisfactory relations with employees and the labor unions. Further, employee shortages can and do occur, particularly in rural areas where some of our operations are located. Labor relations issues arise from time to time, including issues in connection with union efforts to represent employees at our plants. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union (UFCW) has engaged in a campaign to represent employees at our Tar Heel, North Carolina plant, where we have experienced work stoppages, walkouts and attempts to organize boycotts. We and one of our subsidiaries filed a civil action in fiscal 2008 against the UFCW and several affiliates, alleging violations of the federal RICO Act and other state laws. In our complaint, we allege that the UFCW and its co-defendants conspired to engage in a public smear campaign in order to extort our recognition of the UFCW as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of hourly employees at our Tar Heel, North Carolina plant. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or other consequences similar or in addition to the type of activities discussed above. In addition, the discovery by us or governmental authorities of undocumented workers, as has occurred in the past, could result in our having to attempt to replace those workers, which could be disruptive to our operations or may be difficult to do. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the U.S. Congress. If new immigration legislation is enacted, such laws may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire U.S. citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations. Also, despite our past and continuing efforts to hire only U.S. citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the U.S., increased enforcement efforts with respect to existing immigration laws by governmental authorities may disrupt a portion of our workforce or our operations at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting our business. We cannot assure you that these activities or consequences will not have a material impact in the future. We have significant credit exposure to certain customers. Our ten largest customers represented approximately 29% of net sales for fiscal year 2008. We do not have long-term sales agreements (other than to certain third-party hog customers) or other contractual assurances as to future sales to these major customers. In addition, continued consolidation within the retail industry, including among supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base. To the extent these trends continue to occur, our net sales and profitability may be increasingly sensitive to a deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments in our relationship with, one or more customers. 22 Table of Contents An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends, and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to management’s judgment in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill recoverability. Goodwill reviews are prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units based on market multiples of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) or on the estimated present value of future discounted cash flows. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business and market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in non-cash goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of April 27, 2008, we had $864.6 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 9.8% of total assets. 23 Table of Contents 