Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Our results of operations are cyclical and could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the commodity prices for hogs, cattle and grains. We are largely dependent on the cost and supply of hogs, cattle and feed ingredients and the selling price of our products and competing protein products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include: • fluctuations in the size of herds maintained by hog and cattle suppliers, • environmental and conservation regulations, • import and export restrictions, • economic conditions, • weather, • energy prices, • crop and livestock diseases, and • currency fluctuations. Additionally, commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. For example, our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter financial results were impacted negatively by an over-supply of protein which decreased selling prices of our fresh and processed meats. We attempt to manage certain of these risks through the use of our risk management and hedging programs, however this may also limit our ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. For example, in the first half of fiscal 2005, we were unable to benefit fully from strong hog prices due to our hedging activities, but, to a lesser extent, we benefited from favorable hedges of grain. We cannot assure that all or part of any increased costs experienced by us from time to time can be passed along to consumers of our products directly or in a timely manner. 14 Table of Contents Any perceived or real health risks related to the food industry or increased regulation could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by the following: • food spoilage or food contamination, • evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns, • consumer product liability claims, • product tampering, • the possible unavailability and expense of product liability insurance, and • the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Adverse publicity concerning any perceived or real health risk associated with our products could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, particularly as we expand our branded products business. Our products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella, Campylobacter and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. These pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to constant federal, state, local and foreign governmental inspection and extensive regulation in the food safety area, including governmental food processing controls. We have systems in place designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the manufacturing process (including the production of raw materials in the HP segment). However, we cannot assure that such systems, even when working effectively, or compliance with governmental regulations will necessarily mitigate the risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. In addition, future material changes in food safety regulations could result in increased operating costs or could be required to be implemented on schedules that cannot be met without interruptions in our operations. Environmental regulation and related litigation and commitments could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including among others: • the discharge of materials into the environment, and • the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes). Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to us may also be enforced by citizen groups. See Note 12 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of regulatory compliance as it relates to environmental risk. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, pursuant to a voluntary agreement with the State of North Carolina, we committed to implement environmentally superior and economically feasible technologies for the management of swine waste at our farms in North Carolina provided a determination is made by an expert from North Carolina State University that such technologies are both environmentally superior and economically feasible to construct and operate at such farms. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental Stewardship” for further information. We cannot assure that additional environmental issues will not require currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures, or that requirements applicable to us will not be altered in ways that will require us to incur significant additional costs. 15 Table of Contents Health risk to livestock could adversely affect production, the supply of raw materials and our business. We take all necessary and prudent precautions to ensure that our livestock is healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary manner. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Livestock health problems could adversely impact production, supply of raw material to the Pork, Beef and International segments and consumer confidence. If our livestock is affected by disease, we may be required to destroy infected livestock, which could adversely affect our production or ability to sell or export our products. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products, particularly as we expand our branded pork products. In addition to risks associated with maintaining the health of our livestock, any outbreak of livestock disease in the U.S. or even in other countries could result in a loss of consumer confidence in the protein products affected by the particular disease, adverse publicity and the imposition of import or export restrictions. For example, in May 2003 (fiscal 2004), a BSE outbreak in Canada resulted in a U.S. import restriction on live cattle from Canada. The resulting drop in the live cattle supply in the U.S. led to increased prices for live cattle and placed pressure on margins in our Beef segment. Then, in December 2003 (fiscal 2004), a case of BSE was discovered in the State of Washington. As a result, beef imports from the U.S. were banned by many foreign countries, including Japan, the largest importer of U.S. beef. In June 2005 (fiscal 2006), a second case of BSE was confirmed and in March 2006 (fiscal 2006), a third confirmed case in the U.S. was announced. Governmental authorities may take action prohibiting meat packers from owning livestock, which could adversely affect our business. In the past, Congress has considered and the State of Iowa has adopted legislation that would prohibit or restrict meat packers from owning livestock. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the State of Iowa whereby the state agreed not to enforce this restrictive legislation on us for a period of ten years. As a part of our settlement, we committed to pay $200,000 per year for 10 years to support various programs benefiting the swine industry in Iowa. We also agreed to purchase a specified minimum number of hogs to be processed by us in Iowa and South Dakota on the open market for two years. We cannot assure that similar legislation affecting our operations will not be adopted at the federal or state levels in the future. Such legislation, if adopted and applicable to our current operations and not successfully challenged or settled, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial statements. We have and will continue to aggressively challenge any such legislation. Our acquisition strategy may prove to be disruptive and divert management resources. We have made numerous acquisitions in recent years and regularly review opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. These acquisitions may involve large transactions and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • diversion of management attention from existing businesses, • difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, • lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business, • increased levels of debt and associated reduction in ratings of our debt securities, • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, • assumption of unknown liabilities, and • potential disputes with the sellers. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future have problems of which we are not aware. In addition, acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique difficulties and increase our exposure to those risks associated with international operations. 16 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. At April 30, 2006, we had approximately $2,572.7 million of indebtedness outstanding. We have aggregate revolving credit facilities totaling $1,044.6 million. As of April 30, 2006, we had unused capacity under these revolving credit facilities of $490.9 million. These revolving facilities are generally at prevailing market rates. We pay commitment fees on the unused portion of the revolving facilities. We expect our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit facility, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: • it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, • a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs, • it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, and • a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial covenants tied to leverage and interest coverage. The debt agreements restrict the payment of dividends to shareholders and under certain circumstances may limit additional borrowings, investments and the acquisition or disposition of assets. As currently structured, a breach of a covenant or restriction in any of these agreements could result in a default that would in turn cause a default under other agreements, allowing the affected lenders to accelerate the repayment of principal and accrued interest on their outstanding loans, if they choose, and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds. The future ability of us and our operating subsidiaries to comply with financial covenants, make scheduled payments of principal and interest, or refinance existing borrowings depends on future business performance that is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors including the other risks described herein. We are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 16% percent of our net sales in fiscal 2006. International sales are subject to risks related to economic or political uncertainties including among others: • general economic conditions, • imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions (such as the beef import ban in fiscal 2005 and 2006), and • enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws. Furthermore, we conduct foreign operations in France, Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom, with these foreign operations being subject to the risks described above as well as risks related to economic or political uncertainties including among others: • fluctuations in currency values, • translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, • foreign currency exchange controls, and • compliance with foreign laws. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we are engaged in joint ventures in Brazil, China and Mexico and have significant investments in Spain. These investments are also subject to the risks described above. As of April 30, 2006, approximately 20% of our long-lived assets were associated with our foreign operations. Our operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims related to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We depend on the availability of, and satisfactory relations with, our employees. We have approximately 52,500 employees, 22,500 of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining satisfactory relations with employees and the labor unions. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes, work stoppages or other consequences that could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 