Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors including the following: • general economic conditions, including the possibility of a severe recession in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown; • recent disruptions to the global credit and financial markets; • cancellation or delay of customer orders or shipments; • market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; • market acceptance of new/developing technologies that perform in a manner comparable to our products; • variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products; • variations in manufacturing capacity and yields, including additional costs or delays in increasing manufacturing capacity needed to support increasing customer demand; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • volatility in precious metal prices; • variations in operating expenses; • variations in product warranty claims; • impairments of our assets; • the long sales cycles associated with our products; • the timing and level of product and process development costs; • variations in raw material availability, quality and costs; 13 Table of Contents • delays in new process qualification or delays in transferring processes; • the timing and level of nonrecurring engineering revenues and expenses relating to customer-specific products; • significant changes in our own inventory levels as well as our customers’; and • delivery terms requiring that we cover shipment and insurance costs as well as import/export duty costs. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these and other factors. Unfavorable changes in these or other factors could cause our results of operations to materially suffer. Due to potential fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Our business may be negatively impacted by the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk, as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to restricted access to credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect product demand. Demand could be different from our expectations due to a variety of factors including changes in business and economic conditions; conditions in the credit market that could affect consumer confidence; customer acceptance of our and our competitors’ products; changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and changes in the level of our customers’ inventory. Credit market conditions also may slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. In addition, credit conditions may impair our vendors’ ability to finance the portion of raw materials or general working capital needs to support our production requirements, resulting in a delay or non-delivery of inventory shipments. Our ability to find investments that are both safe and liquid and that provide a reasonable return may be impaired. This could result in lower interest income and/or higher other-than-temporary impairments. Our business may be adversely affected by our customers’ ability to access the capital markets. The inability of our customers to access the capital markets, on favorable terms or at all, may adversely affect our financial performance. The inability of our customers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. For example, if our customers do not have sufficient liquidity, they could reduce or limit new purchases, which could result in lower demand for our products and/or we may be at risk for any trade credit we have extended to them, due to their inability to repay us. This risk may increase if the current economic downturn affects significant customers or a large number of our other customers and they are not able to adequately manage their business risks or do not properly disclose their financial condition to us. New competitive products and technologies brought into the market could reduce demand for our current product offerings. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully introduce new products or to gain our customers’ acceptance of those new products. The markets for electronic communications applications in which we participate are characterized by the following: • intense competition; • rapid technological change; • cyclical demand; and • short product life cycles. 14 Table of Contents We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor manufacturers including Skyworks, RF Micro Devices, Avago and Anadigics. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We expect intensified competition from existing integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device suppliers, and from the potential entry of new competitors into our target markets. The operations of some companies producing products similar to ours for their internal requirements also contribute to a competitive environment. Competition is primarily based on performance characteristics such as speed, complexity and power dissipation. Other principal competitive factors include: • prices of competitors’ products; • the timeliness of adoption of new technology; • market acceptance of varying technologies; • impact of new technologies on the demand for our existing products; • product quality; and • strategic customer relationships. Competition from existing or potential competitors may increase due to a number of factors including the following: • new or emerging technologies in integrated circuit design using alternative materials; • new or emerging technologies such as digital filtering direct conversion as alternatives to SAW filters; • mergers and acquisitions of our customers with our competitors or other entities; • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; • strategic relationships between, or mergers of, our competitors; • ability to obtain raw materials at lower costs due to larger purchasing volumes or other advantageous supply relationships; • access to a wider customer base; and • access to greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. Due to the proprietary nature of our products, competition occurs almost exclusively at the system design stage. As a result, a design win by our competitors or by us typically limits further competition with respect to a given design. Additionally, compared to GaAs, manufacturers of high performance silicon integrated circuits have achieved greater market acceptance of their existing products and technologies in some applications. Further, we compete with both GaAs and silicon suppliers in all of our target markets. If we are unable to effectively compete in these markets, our results of operations may be adversely affected. It is critical for companies such as ours to continually and quickly develop new products to meet the changing needs of these markets. If we fail to develop new products to meet our customers’ needs on a timely basis, we will not be able to effectively compete in these markets. Further, new products could be introduced by competitors that have competitive and technological advantages over our current product line-up. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. We have and must continue to perform significant research and development into advanced material development such as GaN on silicon carbide to compete with future technologies of our competitors. These research and development efforts may not be accepted by our customers, and therefore may not achieve sustained production in the future. Further, we may not be able to improve our existing products and process technologies, or be able to develop new technologies in a timely manner or effectively support industry standards. If we fail to design and produce these products in a manner acceptable to 15 Table of Contents our customers, or have incorrectly anticipated our customers’ demand for these types of products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our operating results may suffer due to fluctuations in demand for semiconductors and electronic communications components. From time to time, our markets have experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, and capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. We have experienced, and may experience again, periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008 demand for communications applications decreased substantially, demand for the integrated circuits and modules, components and other products in these applications also declined, which negatively affected our operating results. If the current market demand does not improve, and/or if there is continued pressure on average selling prices and our cost reduction efforts are not effective, our operating results could suffer. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues. If we were to lose any of these customers, our revenues could decrease significantly. We typically have end customers who generate more than 10% of our revenues for a given period. For 2008, Foxconn accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. Any significant loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we build products to support high volume forecasts that never materialize into orders, we may have to write-off excess and obsolete inventory or reduce our prices. We typically increase our inventory levels to meet forecasted future demand. If the forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders for these products, we may be required to write-off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory to fair value, based on a reduced sales price. A write-off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In the second quarter of 2007, we incurred $4.1 million in excess inventory charges primarily due to reduced demand for a single device from a specific customer. We could incur similar charges in the future, which would negatively affect our financial condition. Our revenues are at risk if we do not introduce new products and/or decrease costs. The production of GaAs integrated circuits has been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon devices. Although we have reduced production costs through decreasing raw wafer costs, increasing wafer size and fabrication yields, decreasing die size and achieving higher volumes, we might not be able to do so in the future. Further, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products’ lives and we expect them to continue to do so. To offset these decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs. However, we believe our costs of producing GaAs integrated circuits will continue to exceed the costs associated with the production of silicon devices. As a result, to remain competitive, we must offer devices which provide performance superior to silicon-based solutions. If we do not continue to identify markets that require performance superior to that offered by silicon solutions or if we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differentials, our operating results could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our future success depends, in part, on our timely development and introduction of new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and adequately address customer requirements. The success of new product and process introductions depends on several factors, including: • proper selection of products and processes; • successful and timely completion of product and process development and commercialization; • market acceptance of our own new products, or of our customers’ new products; • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • our ability to offer new products at competitive prices; and • managing the cost of raw materials and manufacturing services. We may be unable to achieve expected yields on new products prior to experiencing selling price pressure on them. If our cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or do not achieve market acceptance, our results of operations could suffer. Our business could be harmed if systems manufacturers do not use components made of GaAs or the other alternative materials we utilize. Silicon semiconductor technologies are the dominant process technologies for integrated circuits and the performance of silicon integrated circuits continues to improve. System designers may be reluctant to adopt our products because of: • their unfamiliarity with designing systems with our products; • their concerns related to manufacturing costs and yields; • their unfamiliarity with our design and manufacturing processes; and • uncertainties about the relative cost effectiveness of our products compared to high performance silicon components. Systems manufacturers may not use GaAs components because the production of GaAs integrated circuits has been, and continues to be, more costly than the production of silicon devices. In addition, customers may be reluctant to rely on a smaller company like ours for critical components. We cannot be certain that additional systems manufacturers will design our products into their systems or that the companies that have utilized our products will continue to do so in the future. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our results of operations would suffer. If we fail to sell a high volume of our products, including customer-specific products, our operating results could be harmed. Because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, high utilization rates are critical to our operating results. If we fail to achieve acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed. During periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations. We manufacture a substantial portion of our products to address the needs of individual customers. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed in the short-term. Because customer-specific products are developed for unique applications, we expect that some of our current and future customer-specific products may never be produced in sufficient volume and may impair our ability to cover our fixed manufacturing costs. If we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs in the short-term and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, we are selling products to an increasing number of our customers on a consignment basis, which can limit our ability to forecast revenues and adjust our costs in the short-term, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents In some areas of our business, particularly in handsets, we have customers who ship their completed products in very large unit volumes. If we are unable to support our customers when their production volume increases, we may be considered an undependable supplier and our customers may seek alternate suppliers for products that we may have anticipated producing over an extended period of time and in large quantities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if we experience delays in completing designs, fail to obtain development contracts from customers whose products are successful, or fail to have our product designed into the next generation product of existing volume production customers, our revenues could be harmed. Underutilization of our manufacturing facilities and additional capital expenditures may adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, we have underutilized our manufacturing lines. This excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the revenues we generate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. If we are unable to improve utilization levels at these facilities and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, we have increased our capacity in certain facilities to meet current customer demands. These facilities currently have limitations in certain areas of manufacturing and we may need to invest in more capital equipment and facilities to relieve these manufacturing limitations and allow for greater capacity. If we acquire more equipment, our fixed costs will increase. Further, if customer demand later falls, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks of a loss of revenues if contracts with the U.S. government or military contractors are canceled or delayed. In 2008 and 2007, we received a portion of our revenues from the U.S. government or from prime contractors on U.S. government sponsored programs principally for military applications. These military programs with the U.S. government generally have long lead times, such as the DARPA contract to develop high power, wide band amplifiers in GaN and the F-22 Raptor and JSF aircraft programs. These military programs are also subject to delays or cancellation. Further, spending on military contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the U.S. government. We believe our government and military contracts in the recent past have been negatively affected by military operations such as the war in Iraq, as the government has allocated more funding to the war and less on new development and long-term programs, such as the ones in which we participate. Reductions in military funding or the loss of a significant military program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and the processes of our vendors. The fabrication of integrated circuits, particularly those made of GaAs, is a highly complex and precise process. Our integrated circuits are primarily manufactured on wafers made of GaAs while our SAW filters are currently manufactured primarily on LiNbO3, LiTaO3 and quartz wafers and our BAW wafers are currently manufactured on sapphire or silicon wafers. We refer to the proportion of final components that have been processed, assembled and tested relative to the gross number of components that could be constructed from the raw materials as our manufacturing yield. Compared to the manufacturing of silicon integrated circuits, GaAs technology is less mature and more difficult to design and manufacture within specifications in large volume. In addition, the more brittle nature of GaAs wafers can result in lower manufacturing yields than with silicon wafers. Further, during manufacturing, each wafer is processed to contain numerous integrated circuits or SAW/BAW filters which may also result in lower manufacturing yields. As a result, we may reject or be unable to sell a substantial percentage of wafers or the components on a given wafer because of, among other factors: • minute impurities; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties in the fabrication process, such as failure of special equipment, operator error or power outages; • defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer; • electrical and/or optical performance; or • wafer breakage. In the past we have experienced lower than expected manufacturing yields, which have delayed product shipments and negatively affected our results of operations. We may experience similar difficulty in maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. In addition, the maintenance of our fabrication facilities and our assembly facilities is subject to risks, including: • the demands of managing and coordinating workflow between geographically separate production facilities; • disruption of production in one of our facilities as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in our other facility; and • higher operating costs from managing geographically separate manufacturing facilities. The transfer of production of a product to a different facility often requires the qualification of the facility by certain customers. If such changes and transfers are not implemented on a cost-effective basis or cause delays or disruption in our production, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations. Some of our manufacturing facilities are located in areas prone to natural disasters. We have a SAW manufacturing and assembly facility located in Apopka, Florida and assembly facilities in San Jose, Costa Rica and the Philippines. Hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding, tornadoes, and other natural disasters are common events for Florida, Asia and Central America that could affect our operations in these areas. Other natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tornadoes and flooding could also affect our facilities in Colorado, California, Oregon and Texas. The following table indicates the approximate exposure we believe we have with respect to natural disasters: Location Type ofDisaster Approximate Percentof Total* Fixed Assets Revenues Apopka, Florida H 13 % 10 % Bend, Oregon E, V 0 % 1 % Dallas, Texas H 40 % 22 % Hillsboro, Oregon E, V 25 % 64 % San Jose, Costa Rica E, V, H 13 % 4 % San Jose, California E 1 % 5 % Laguna Technopark, Philippines V, H 1 % 0 % E—Earthquake/mudslide V—Volcanic eruption H—Hurricane, tornado, typhoon, and/or flooding * Figures are based on revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 or net fixed assets as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, the sum may be greater than 100% due to shared risks between locations. Any disruptions from these or other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 19 Table of Contents Our operating results could be harmed if we lose access to sole or limited sources of materials, equipment or services or if our third party providers are unable to fulfill our requirements. We currently obtain a portion of the components, equipment and services for our products from limited or single sources, such as certain ceramic packages and chemicals. We purchase these components, equipment, supplies and services on a purchase order basis, do not carry significant inventories and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with these vendors. Our requirements are relatively small compared to silicon semiconductor manufacturers. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our vendors’ business, we may not have access to sufficient capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand. We currently use subcontractors for the majority of our integrated circuit and module assemblies, as well as final product testing. Further, we expect our utilization of subcontractors to grow as module products become a larger portion of our product revenues. If these subcontractors are unable to meet our needs, it could prevent or delay production shipments that could negatively affect our results of operations and our customer relationships. If we were to change any of our sole or limited source vendors or subcontractors, we would be required to requalify each new vendor and subcontractor. Requalification, which can take up to 12 months, could prevent or delay product shipments negatively affecting our results of operations. In some cases, it would be difficult to replace these suppliers. There are certain risks associated with dependence on third party providers, such as minimal control over delivery scheduling, adequate capacity during demand peaks, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and parts may impair our ability to produce our products on time and with acceptable yields. At times in the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining ceramic packages and lids used in the production of filters. At other times, the acquisition of relatively simple devices, such as capacitors, has been problematic because of the large demand swings that can occur in the handset market for such components. Our success in obtaining these products is critical to the overall success of our business. If our suppliers were unable to meet our delivery schedules or went out of business, we could have difficulty locating an alternative source, harming our business. In addition, our reliance on third-party vendors and subcontractors may negatively affect our production if the services vary in reliability or quality. If we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of our source materials in sufficient quantities and of acceptable quality or if the prices increase, our results of operations could be harmed. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The fabrication of integrated circuits and SAW/BAW filters from substrate materials and the modules containing these components is a highly complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. Our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments, which we may experience from time to time. If such failures or defects occur, we could: • lose revenues; • incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; or • experience increased product returns or discounts; all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations we could be subject to substantial fines, we could be required to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing process. For our manufacturing facilities, we generally provide our own manufacturing waste treatment and contract for disposal of some 20 Table of Contents materials. We are required to report usage of environmentally hazardous materials. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in our having to pay a fine, suspend production, or cease our operations. These regulations could require us to acquire significant equipment or to incur other substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Further, new environmental initiatives could affect the materials we currently use in production. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Two former production facilities at Scotts Valley and Palo Alto from our acquisition of WJ Communications, have significant environmental liabilities for which we have entered into and funded fixed price remediation agreements and obtained cost-overrun and unknown pollution insurance coverage. We do not assure you that these arrangements will be sufficient to cover all liabilities related to these two sites. Environmental regulations such as the WEEE and RoHS directives may require us to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems. Various countries have begun to require companies selling a broad range of electrical equipment to conform to regulations such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) and the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). We expect additional countries and locations to adopt similar regulations in the future. New environmental standards such as these could require us to redesign our products in order to comply with the standards, and require the development of compliance administration systems. For example, RoHS requires that certain substances be removed from all electronic components. We have already invested significant resources into developing compliance tracking systems, and further investments may be required. Additionally, we may incur significant costs to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems; however, alternative designs may have an adverse effect on our gross profit margin. If we cannot develop compliant products timely or properly administer our compliance programs, our revenues may also decline due to lower sales, which would adversely affect our operating results. Further, if we were found to be non-compliant with any rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. Customers may delay or cancel orders due to regulatory delays. The increasing significance of electronic communications products has increased pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for electronic communications, generally following extensive investigation of and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in the regulatory approval process may cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These delays have in the past had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on our sales and our results of operations. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or to successfully integrate WJ Communications and any future acquisitions, or if we unsuccessfully invest in privately held companies, our business could be harmed. On an ongoing basis, we review acquisition and investment opportunities that would strengthen our product line, expand market presence and complement our technologies. We face risks from our recent and any future acquisitions or investments, including the following: • we may fail to retain the key employees or successfully integrate personnel of newly acquired companies required to make the operation successful; • we may experience difficulties integrating our financial and operating systems and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting; 21 Table of Contents • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and risk management; • our ongoing business and operations, particularly our manufacturing yields, may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; • we may not cost-effectively and rapidly incorporate the technologies we acquire or recognize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated; • we may not be able to cost-effectively develop commercial products using the newly acquired technology; • we may not be able to meet the demands of and/or retain the existing customers of newly acquired operations; • our corporate culture may clash with that of the acquired businesses; and • we may incur unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We face risks from equity investments in privately held companies, such as: • we may not realize the expected benefits associated with the investment resulting in a partial or total write-off of this investment; • additional rounds of funding may substantially dilute our position if we do not participate in the subsequent funding; • we may need to provide additional funding to support the privately held company; or • if the value of the equity investment decreases, we may realize losses on our holdings. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and we may pursue product, technology or business acquisitions or investments in strategic partners. However, we may not successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise in connection with future acquisitions or equity investments in privately held companies. If we do not hire and retain key employees, our business will suffer. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing and management personnel. We also depend on our ability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified technical employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture and development of our products and processes. We must also recruit and train employees to manufacture our products without a substantial reduction in manufacturing yields. There are many other semiconductor companies located in the communities near our facilities and it may become increasingly difficult for us to attract and retain key personnel. The competition for key employees is intense, and the loss of key employees could negatively affect our business. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 22 Table of Contents In the future, we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could require the spending of a significant amount of resources and the attention and efforts of our management and technical personnel. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to produce our products may suffer if someone claims we infringe on their intellectual property. The integrated circuit, SAW and BAW device industries are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. If it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that licenses will be offered or that we would find the terms of licenses that are offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of products. We have in the past paid substantial legal fees in defending ourselves against patent infringement claims and may be required to do so again in future claims. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable determination. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers; • stop the manufacture, use and sale of the infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of certain processes; or • purchase licenses to the technology and/or pay royalties. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or negotiating licenses upon reasonable terms, as the case may be. These problems might not be resolved in time to avoid harming our results of operations. Further, if any third party makes a successful claim against our customers or us and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. We may be subject to other lawsuits and claims relating to our products. We cannot be sure that third parties will not assert product liability or other claims against us, our customers or our licensors with respect to existing and future products. Any litigation to determine the validity of any third party’s claims could result in significant expense and liability to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor or covered by insurance. Our ability to accurately predict revenues and inventory needs could deteriorate if we generate additional sales through inventory hubbing distribution facilities. Several of our larger customers have requested that we send our products to independent warehouses known as inventory hubbing distribution facilities to assist them with their inventory control. We do not recognize revenues from these hubbing arrangements until the customer takes delivery of the inventory and title of the goods passes to the customer. As a result, increased shipments to these facilities make it more difficult for us to predict short-term revenues and inventory consumption as customers can take delivery of the products with little or no lead-time. In addition, stocking requirements at hubbing facilities tends to reduce inventory turns, increase working capital requirements and increase the possibility of excess, obsolete and inventory loss issues. 23 Table of Contents Our business may suffer due to risks associated with our operations and employees located outside of the U.S. Our sales outside of the United States for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 71%, 78% and 73% of total revenues, respectively. A number of our employees and operations are located in countries other than the United States. We also employ contractors in other countries to perform certain packaging and test operations for us. The laws and operating conditions of these countries may differ substantially from that of the U.S. As a result of having a significant amount of sales outside of the United States, we face inherent risks from these operations, including but not limited to: • imposition of restrictive government actions, including controls, expropriations and interventions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties related to the collection of receivables from international customers; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • unfavorable tax laws; • difficulty obtaining distribution and support; • political instability; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • labor shortages and disputes; • financial institution failure; • widespread illness, acts of terrorism or war; • disruption of production processes; • power interruptions; • interruption of freight channels and delivery schedules; and • fraud. In addition, due to the technological advantages provided by GaAs integrated circuits in many military applications, the Office of Export Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce must license all of our sales outside of the United States. We are also required to obtain licenses from that agency for sales of our SAW products to customers in certain countries. If we fail to obtain these licenses or experience delays in obtaining these licenses in the future, our results of operations could be harmed. Also, because a majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the dollar would increase the price in local currencies of our products and make our products less price competitive. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would affect our financial position. As a corporation with operations both in the United States and abroad, we are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations because the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous foreign tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize deferred tax assets: • changes in contingencies related taxes, interest or penalties resulting from internal, accounting firm and governmental tax reviews and audits; 24 Table of Contents • tax holidays; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws, specifically transfer pricing, permanent establishment and other intercompany transactions. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We face risks from changes in tax regulations and a change in our Costa Rican subsidiary’s favorable tax status would have an adverse impact on our operating results. We are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. In some jurisdictions, we have employed specific business strategies to minimize our tax exposure. To the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. For example, our subsidiary in Costa Rica operates in a free trade zone. We expect to receive a 50% exemption from Costa Rican income taxes through November 2011. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, the 50% tax exemption reduced our income tax expense by $1.2 million. The Costa Rican government continues to review its policy on granting tax exemptions to companies located in free trade zones and it may change our tax status or minimize our benefit at any time. Any adverse change in the tax structure for our Costa Rican subsidiary made by the Costa Rican government would have a negative impact on our net income. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and several foreign tax authorities could assert additional taxes associated with our foreign subsidiaries activities. Our operating results may be negatively affected by class action or derivative lawsuits. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, some stockholders may file securities class action litigation. Such litigation has occurred in the past and could occur again in the future. In 2007, two purported derivative actions filed in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon were consolidated. The plaintiffs alleged that certain of our officers and directors violated Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, breached their fiduciary duty, abused control, engaged in constructive fraud, corporate waste, insider selling, and gross mismanagement, and were unjustly enriched by improperly backdating stock options. We believe there is no merit to the plaintiff’s claims. Previous investigations into these matters by the SEC and DOJ were closed without findings of wrong-doing by the company. Future claims, if any, could harm our operating results, and we may incur significant legal fees defending these claims. Further, defending these claims distracts our management from running our business. Our stock will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of semiconductor companies have been especially volatile. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of $6.92 to a low of $1.69 for the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2008. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense. 25 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures, and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. Our line of credit contains numerous covenants that restrict our ability to create, incur or assume liens and indebtedness, make certain investments and dispositions, change the nature of the business, and merge with other entities. Other covenants are financial in nature, including leverage and liquidity ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. If a default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions, which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the provisions of Delaware General Corporate Law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions such as: • Cumulative voting. Our stockholders are entitled to cumulate their votes for directors. • Stockholder proposals and nominations. Our stockholders must give advance notice, generally 120 days prior to the relevant meeting, to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. • Stockholder rights plan. We may trigger our stockholder rights plan in certain circumstances. The rights plan may make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. • Preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine what rights, preferences and privileges such shares have. No action by our stockholders is necessary before our board of directors can issue the preferred stock. Our board of directors could use the preferred stock to make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. In addition, Delaware General Corporate Law restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The Delaware statute makes it harder for our company to be acquired without the consent of our board of directors and management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 